---
title: Data detection and protection policies for e-mail
abstract: Systems and/or methods for deploying and implementing data loss prevention (DLP) policy definition that may encapsulate the requirements, control objectives and directives, and/or the definitions of sensitive data types as stipulated directly or indirectly by the regulatory policy are disclosed. In one embodiment, DLP policies may be identified by an organization to run on top of a set of electronic file systems (e.g., email systems, file systems, web servers and the like). Organizations and their administrators may implement a set of DLP policy instance which are derived from DLP policy templates. DLP policy templates may comprise both structure and meaning—and may acquire a given DLP policy by the replacement of parameterized expressions with desired parameter values. In another embodiment, the state of the DLP policy instance may change according to the lifecycle of the policy instance deployment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317696&OS=09317696&RS=09317696
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09317696
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120710
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","INTRODUCTION","One Embodiment","Data Detection and Prevention Policy Object Model Embodiment"],"p":["Modern organizations find it desirable to find, monitor, and protect sensitive information (e.g., in electronic form)\u2014such as PII, Financial Data, Intellectual Property, and Health data in e-mail. In order to do this, organizations attempt to model both the data that should be protected\u2014as well as the policies that should be applied to the data. For e-mail, administrators attempt to select different scoping mechanism for their policies such as sender identity, recipient identity, and others.","In addition, administrators attempt to select and apply actions such as audit, encrypt, require TLS transmission, etc. Also, administrators try to take policies that are related to a single objective such as regulatory objective and may try to manage them as a single package, even though policies may contain different rules, and enable\/disable and test policy in a single action.","The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","Systems and\/or methods for deploying and implementing data loss prevention (DLP) policy instances from a policy object model are disclosed. In one embodiment, DLP policies may be identified by an organization to run on top of a set of electronic file systems (e.g., email systems, file systems, web servers and the like). Organizations and their administrators may implement a set of DLP policy instance by the parameterization of DLP policy templates. DLP policy templates may comprise both structure and meaning\u2014and may be affected by the substitution of generic policy configuration with deployment specific environment configurations at time of policy creation by the replacement of parameterized expressions with desired parameter values. In another embodiment, the state of the DLP policy instance may change according to the lifecycle of the policy instance deployment.","In one embodiment, a method for instantiating a DLP policy from a set of policy templates is disclosed, the steps of the method comprising: identifying an electronic file system upon which a desired DLP policy is to be affected; identifying a set of DLP policy templates suitable for the desired DLP policy; parameterizing the DLP policy templates with desired DLP Policy-specific data; and disseminating the parameterized DLP policy instance to the electronic file system.","In another embodiment, a system for creating at least one DLP policy instance for a set of electronic file systems is disclosed, comprising: a set of DLP policy templates; each of the DLP policy templates comprising a set of component fields; a DLP policy template parameterization module, the template parameterization module capable of replacing the component fields with desired policy data; and a DLP main policy module capable of creating a DLP policy instance for a set of electronic file systems from the set of DLP policy templates.","Other features and aspects of the present system are presented below in the Detailed Description when read in connection with the drawings presented within this application.","As utilized herein, terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201csystem,\u201d \u201cinterface,\u201d and the like are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, software (e.g., in execution), and\/or firmware. For example, a component can be a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.","Several embodiments of the present application disclose systems, methods and mechanisms that allow policies to be created for electronic file subsystems (for merely one example, e-mail) and model them as a set of related objects that can be installed, removed, state changed, and reported from at the same time in a single operation. While the present embodiments are more drawn to examples of e-mail systems, it should be appreciated that the systems, methods and\/or techniques described here are also applicable to a wide variety of electronic file systems in a broad sense\u2014e.g., file systems, information protection and collaboration (e.g. Microsoft Sharepoint\u00ae system), web servers, application servers and the like.","As will be discussed in more detail herein, in many embodiments, it would be desirable to employ a framework to model complex industry regulations or company information governances as a policy. Broadly, these policies\u2014and their associated systems and methods\u2014are generally described in area of Data Loss Prevention (DLP). Applications in this area may implement all or partial components that address the policy processing as it applies to: (1) managing the policy lifecycle; (2) enforcing and evaluating the policy at policy enforcement points; (3) generating and viewing reports and (4) managing violations for incidents",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"As may be seen in , Policy Management System  may comprise a policy authoring system , a policy store , a policy dissemination system . As will be discussed in further detail herein, these policy modules may be employed to set and disseminate a policy for the organization. Policy may be affected by various policy translation\/mapping systems \u2014which understand the generic policy directives and transform them to the contextually understood format by the policy enforcement points, which may interface with various electronic data subsystems\u2014e.g., Mail Delivery Systems , mail client systems like Microsoft Outlook\u00ae system , information management systems like Microsoft Sharepoint\u00ae system , File Systems , Web Servers  or other suitable electronic data subsystems that are capable of policy enforcement and application.","Within these policy enforcement subsystems, there may be modules therein that implement the policies effectively within the subsystems. For example, such modules may be policy consumption, local contextual processing\u2014which may further comprise contextual policy evaluation, contextual policy enforcement, and contextual policy presentation.","As a part of these subsystems, it may be desirable to have a contextual audit data generator. These audit data generators may be in communication with an audit aggregation system  and an audit presentation system .","It should be appreciated that many other architectures are possible for implementing a policy system that may interface with an organization's software suite\u2014e.g., email, file servers, web interfaces and the like. In addition, it may be possible (and maybe desirable) for certain policy modules (for example, the policy authoring and store, and audit functions) to be hosted apart from the organization and supplied otherwise (e.g., server\/client relationship, cloud-based services or the like).","Once a policy system is implemented or otherwise configured for an organization, such policy systems take on a runtime dynamic.  depicts one embodiment of a runtime dynamic , as it might apply to an exemplary email flow policy application. The organization will typically have its email system and\/or server  prior to the implementation of a policy system that will operated on top of, or otherwise cooperatively, with the email system.","The policy system may consume policy content from multiple sources. One such source may be as supplied with the system itself in the form of out-of-box (OOB) set of policy templates that are available as part of the product and may be acquired and installed by a tenant system administrator and\/or other suitable users . Another source may be from Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and product partners, and consultants that provide custom policy content for the consumption by the target organization.  may supply the organization with custom DLP policies. In either case, administrator  may perform particular configuration of a DLP policy system\u2014in this case, working with the organization's email system. In addition to the installation\/creation of the policy, it may be desirable that ongoing policy maintenance and tuning may be performed by in-house personnel or external contractors or vendors\u2014such as the tenant administrator or by the ISVs, partners, and\/or consultants. These may be represented by multiple operations such as  and .","In operation, the policy directives may include operations in contexts that the information workers interact with, such as Outlook or generic email client , that may result in the active education and\/or notification of the policy to the organization's users. The policy directives would determine what content is considered sensitive and define the rules governing its usage\/handling within the organization. Both, what is the sensitive content and rules governing its usage can be disseminated to the end users as part of the policy directives. (e.g., email with patient information, trade secret information or the like). The policy directive may allow the user of sending this information unrestricted, require explicit acknowledgement that the communication contains sensitive information and the user takes responsibility for its disclosure, or prevention of sharing outright.","Once received, email server may process the email according to the same policy definition for policy consideration, compliance and\/or processing directly (or the policy system may be operating apart from the email server in a server\/client relationship or the like). Once the email is scanned for sensitive content, additional actions may take place such as holding the email prior to sending outside the email server, the organization or the like. Any non-compliance with policy (or period reports of generally compliant email traffic) may be sent to an auditor  for follow up. Such follow-up may be to retrain affected employees\u2014or it may detect some error in the dynamic flow and\/or operation of the policy system. Any policy processing errors may be referred back to either the system administrator or to the ISV for correction. The mail processing server will enforce that the policy was uniformly applied no matter what client was used as part of the authoring experience. If the policy requires sender acknowledgements, these may be enforced for presence or the mail will be rejected back to the sender.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["202","300","302","302","318","316","314","314"],"i":["a ","b "]},"The agent may interface with a message content and attachment text extraction module (referred to herein as \u201cFIPS\u201d)  and content analysis module to scan for sensitive content. FIPS may be affected as a component that does the content extraction and conversion to text (e.g., both mail messages and attachments) and may pass the extracted content into the classification engine for analysis of any sensitive content as defined by the policy directives. FIPS may comprise a text extraction engine and communication modules with text extraction engine and the content analysis engine, and respectively. FIPS may be the same as the DLP policy evaluation module\u2014e.g., it may be constructed as a sub-component making up DLP policy evaluation\u2014i.e., the one that does text extraction which is then fed into the classification engine for analysis for any sensitive information as defined by the DLP policy.","The text extraction module may interface (perhaps via a communication protocol ) with the content analysis\/scanning engine\/module  which may perform the text analysis on the text identified with the e-mail bodies and any attachments. The text analysis engine may identify sensitive content based on the policy information which has been stored in the content rules store  such as AD. Such rules may be edited by administrators\/users via module via UI .","The present systems, methods and\/or mechanisms may be implemented by an object model approach. In one such embodiment, the complexities of a regulatory policy may be represented through a policy template concept which encapsulates the policy directives and controls and offers methods for its lifecycle management. It may be desirable to have the following objects defined and\/or associated with an object model that may allow for ease of implementation: (1) policy template objects that allow for the installation of the policy and all associated objects; (2) a main policy object that tracks shared metadata and state; (3) a set of policy rule objects, mapping to the policy object, which define the policy directives as match conditions and actions for each policy and (4) data classification rule objects which define the structure of the sensitive data that the policy, and the regulatory specification, specify as sensitive data definitions.","For these various objects, it may be desirable to define and implement operations that act upon these objects. For example, for an exemplary policy template object operations might comprise: (1) install, (2) instantiate, and (3) remove. Operations for a main policy object might comprise: (1) creating new policy object from template; (2) creating new, editing, deleting, and managing state changes through its lifecycle. As may be the case, each of these operations may have impact on multiple objects associated with the policy which themselves implement the policy directives as appropriate in any of the applicable policy enforcement points. In the case of a policy system for email, there may be a runtime behavior for email\u2014that may be subject to the policy\u2014across a number of policy enforcement points which may include: (1) e-mail client (2) e-mail server (3) e-mail storage system (4) e-mail processing gateways etc. Each of the policy enforcement points interprets and applies the policy in accordance with the state of the policy as it relates to the policy deployment lifecycle which may include (1) audit only evaluation of the policy (2) audit and notification evaluation of the policy and (3) full enforcement of the policy directives.","DLP Policy Template Embodiment","In one embodiment, a DLP policy template is a component description that identifies the characteristics of the policy and how it is realized using components\u2014i.e., a configuration for components. It may be non-environment specific\u2014e.g., a stencil used to create a deployment specific version. In addition, it may not have any state since it is just a definition. In addition, it may offer a very simple set of operations\u2014such as: Import, Export, Deletion and Query. In one possible embodiment, the template may be authored using an XML document that may be used to express the full construct of a regulatory policy in an implementation independent format, as depicted in .","In this embodiment, the Import operation may allow for the import of the definition. The Import operation may be provided for \u201cout of the box\u201d (OOB) policy definitions that are built into the system. In addition, Import may be used to provide updates version of the policy templates for an OOB policy templates. Further, the import may be used to incorporate into the system additional policy definitions that are provided to meet custom regulatory objectives or organizational needs. These additional policy definitions may extend built-in policy definitions or create brand-new policy definitions.","The Export operation may allow for the saving, backup and offline updates of the policy definitions. Export may provide access to the serialized version of the template and may be used to migrate the template from one environment to another.","Deletion operation removes the policy definition from a deployment environment. In one embodiment, it may not be desired that Deletion is supported for OOB definitions. Query operation may allow for the discovery of the definitions for both OOB policies and any additional policies that have been added into the system.","An Exemplary DLP Policy Template Parameterization","For merely one example,  depicts one putative set of DLP Policy Template components  that might be implemented to realize exemplary customer email flow compliance, possibly based on specific regulations. As may be seen, the DLP Policy comprises a set of components (having an associated structure  and meaning )\u2014e.g., Publisher (, ), Version (, ), Policy Name (, ), Description (, ), Meta-Data (, ), Set of Policy Constructs (, ) and a set of Data Classification Packages (, ). It will be noted that a set of meanings may be associated with these components. In this example, the interface for managing the DLP policy templates objects may be PowerShell or any suitable web interface.","In one embodiment, it may be desirable that the template definition allow defining properties that may be mapped to deployment values at time the template is used to create a DLP policy instance. For example, two main properties may be defined that utilize this capability: (1) exception Distribution List (DL) which may be mapped to a default DL provisioned within a DLP deployment and (2) a DLP reporting mailbox that will be used as the destination for notifications of any policy violation detections.","DLP Policy Template Parameterization","In one embodiment, a simple property replacement mechanism may be used to accomplish parameterization of fields in a template. The following may be desired for the replacement mechanism: (1) the ability to specify parameterized expression for DLP policy construct elements in a DLP template; (2) the ability to pass parameter values as part of DLP template instantiation; (3) the ability to use parameterized expressions in both OOB DLP policy templates and ISV created ones; (4) the support for Unicode strings in the DLP policy template definition and as substitution character input; (4) the ability for API to discover which properties are parameterized in a template; (5) the ability to strong type the parameterized properties in a template.","This mechanism may be implemented by a simple find and replace of name value pairs in a template. The template's DLP policy constructs would allow the specification of substation keys for which replacement values may be provided. For example, the substation keys may be of the form: %%keyName%%, where keyName is an identifier. The interface may allow the passing of a name value pair that will provide a mapping for each keyName to a value.","For merely one example, the following excerpt may be given from a policy definition in the PCI-DSS DLP policy template, as shown in :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cutf-8\u201d standalone=\u201cyes\u201d ?>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<dlpPolicyTemplates>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<dlpPolicyTemplate version=\u201c15.0.3.0\u201d state=\u201cEnabled\u201d"},{"entry":"mode=\u201cAudit\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<contentVersion>1<\/contentVersion>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<publisherName>Microsoft (Beta)<\/publisherName>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<name>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cen-us\u201d>PII<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cfr-fr\u201d>PII<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/name>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cen-us\u201d>Detects the presence of"},{"entry":"information considered to be PII in the U.S. This includes the presence of"},{"entry":"data like SSN and Driver's License in email. After completing your"},{"entry":"testing, configure the rules in this program such that the transmission of"},{"entry":"information complies with your organization's policies. Examples"},{"entry":"include configuring TLS with known business partners, or adding more"},{"entry":"restrictive transport rule actions such as rights"},{"entry":"protection.<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cfr-fr\u201d>D\u00e9tecte la pr\u00e9sence de"},{"entry":"l'information consid\u00e9r\u00e9e comme PII aux \u00c9tats-Unis. Cela comprend la"},{"entry":"pr\u00e9sence de donn\u00e9es SSN et permis de conduire dans le courriel. Apr\u00e8s"},{"entry":"avoir compl\u00e9t\u00e9 votre test, configurez les r\u00e8gles dans ce programme tel"},{"entry":"que la transmission de l'information conforme aux politiques de votre"},{"entry":"organisation. Configuration de TLS avec les partenaires commerciaux"},{"entry":"connus, ou ajouter des actions de r\u00e8gle de transport plus restrictives"},{"entry":"telles que la protection des droits des exemples.<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<keywords>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<keyword>KeyWord1<\/keyword>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<keyword>KeyWord2<\/keyword>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/keywords>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ruleParameters>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<ruleParameter type=\u201cstring\u201d required=\u201cTrue\u201d"},{"entry":"token=\u201c%%ReportSeverity-1%%\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cen-us\u201d>Parameter Description -"},{"entry":"reportseveritylevel#1<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cpl\u201d>parametr opis -"},{"entry":"reportseveritylevel#1<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/ruleParameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<ruleParameter type=\u201cstring\u201d required=\u201cFalse\u201d"},{"entry":"token=\u201c%%ReportSeverity-2%%\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cen-us\u201d>Parameter Description -"},{"entry":"reportseveritylevel #2<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<localizedString lang=\u201cpl\u201d>parametr opis -"},{"entry":"reportseveritylevel#2<\/localizedString>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/description>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/ruleParameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ruleParameters>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<policyCommands>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<commandBlock>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<![CDATA[New-TransportRule -name \u201cPII-outside\u201d -comment"},{"entry":"\u201cMonitors for PII content sent to outside the organization\u201d -DlpPolicy"},{"entry":"\u201c%%DlpPolicyName%%\u201d -SentToScope NotInOrganization -"},{"entry":"MessageContainsDataClassifications @{Name=\u201cUS Social Security"},{"entry":"Number (SSN)\u201d},@{Name=\u201cPassport Number (U.S \/ U.K)\u201d} -"},{"entry":"ReportSeverityLevel %%ReportSeverity-1%%]]>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/commandBlock>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<commandBlock>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<![CDATA[New-TransportRule -name \u201cPII-within\u201d -comment"},{"entry":"\u201cMonitors for PII content sent inside the organization\u201d -DlpPolicy"},{"entry":"\u201c%%DlpPolicyName%%\u201d -SentToScope InOrganization -"},{"entry":"MessageContainsDataClassifications @{Name=\u201cUS Individual"},{"entry":"Taxpayer Identification Number (US ITIN)\u201d},@{Name=\u201cUS Social"},{"entry":"Security Number (SSN)\u201d},@{Name=\u201cPassport Number (U.S \/"},{"entry":"U.K)\u201d} -ReportSeverityLevel%%ReportSeverity-2%%]]>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/commandBlock>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/policyCommands>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/dlpPolicyTemplate>"},{"entry":"<\/dlpPolicyTemplates>"},{"entry":"-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The example above may be affected by the substation of two keywords: \u201c%%ReportSeverity\u22121%%\u201d and \u201c%%ReportSeverity\u22122%I%\u201d (as given above) as part of the DLP policy creation from this template using the following sample syntax:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"[PS] C:\\>new-DLPPolicy -Template PII -State Audit -Parameters @{"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u201cReportSeverity-1\u201d= \u201dHigh\u201d; \u201cReportSeverity-2\u201d=\u201dLow\u201d }"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"This would result in the creation of the resulting policy directives, possibly implemented through Exchange Transport Rules (ETR), with the parameterized keys substituted with the specified values from the \u201cParameters\u201d argument. It should be appreciated that this mechanism would be available for both DLP OOB templates\u2014as well as custom templates from ISVs and others. If any parameterized properties do not have corresponding value passed in through the Parameter option, it may be desirable that an error is generated.","DLP Policy Template Properties","The following table gives some examples of DLP Policy Template object and their associated properties. It will be appreciated that other template components may be similarly set out.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["NAME","BASE TYPE","RESTRICTIONS","DESCRIPTIONS"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Identity","String","Guid","ID of the object. Unique and immutable."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Can be specified at create time."]},{"entry":["Name","String","<64 Unicode","A user friendly name to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"chars","describe the object."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Recommended to be unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"but not enforced by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"system. \u201cName\u201d is an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"alternative mechanism used to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identify the object and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"expected to be used by admins"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in PowerShell interface."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Changeable by user."]},{"entry":["PublisherName","String","<64 Unicode","Who published this DLP template."]},{"entry":[{},{},"chars"]},{"entry":["Description","String","Unicode chars","Description of the policy template."]},{"entry":["Regulation","String","<64 Unicode","List of regulations targeted by"]},{"entry":[{},"collection","chars per item","this DLP profile template."]},{"entry":["Region","String","2 chars per","List of countries targeted by"]},{"entry":[{},"collection","item","this DLP profile template. The"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"values are based on the two-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"letter country codes as"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"assigned part of the ISO 3166-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"1 Part 1 specification which is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"commonly used in Microsoft"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Windows\u2009\u00ae software to specify"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"region designation of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"localization components."]},{"entry":["Keywords","String","<64 Unicode","Additional keywords applicable"]},{"entry":[{},"collection","chars per item","to the policy used for searches"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"during discovery."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"DLP Policy Template Operations","The following table gives some examples of DLP Policy Template operations and their associated descriptions. It will be appreciated that other template operations may be similarly set out.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"VERBS","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Get","Standard query task. Returns all DLP"]},{"entry":[{},{},"policy templates in the deployment"]},{"entry":[{},{},"environment. Support --- Filter"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parameter to specify server side"]},{"entry":[{},{},"filtering options. Filtering may be"]},{"entry":[{},{},"based on the following properties:"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PublisherName, Regulation, Region,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords, etc."]},{"entry":[{},"Import","Imports a policy template from a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"serialized version into a deployment"]},{"entry":[{},{},"environment."]},{"entry":[{},"Export","Inverse of Import. Exports a serialized"]},{"entry":[{},{},"version of the DLP policy template."]},{"entry":[{},"Remove","Removes a DLP policy template"]},{"entry":[{},{},"definition."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"DLP Policy Instance","DLP policy instance is the result of creating a DLP policy object from a template in a deployment environment. It represents the set of instantiated component objects employed to implement the policy definition in the template (e.g. ETRs, data classification rules etc.). An instance is deployment-specific\u2014i.e., it tends to contain definitions that reference components and elements that are specific to a customer environment and hence it tends to be non-portable across deployments.","Unlike a template, a DLP policy instance has state which represents the lifecycle state within the customer's deployment (for example, audit or enabled). The DLP policy state may be used to control the state of the components that comprise the policy. Changes in the DLP policy instance state apply corresponding changes within the policy objects controlled by the DLP policy. Three basic states exist for a policy which represents a customer's progression in realizing their policy implementation. The following table gives one embodiment of a state table of a DLP policy instance:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"STATE","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Audit","Customer is collecting data on what"]},{"entry":[{},{},"kind of content is being sent through"]},{"entry":[{},{},"his mail flows without modifying any"]},{"entry":[{},{},"behavior. This may be used to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"adjust\/tune policies or to determine"]},{"entry":[{},{},"impact and\/or actions that would"]},{"entry":[{},{},"result from enabling the policy."]},{"entry":[{},"Notify","Client is moving to start to educate"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the users on the DLP policies in place"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and get them familiar with the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"business processes around sensitive"]},{"entry":[{},{},"content. It may desired to selectively"]},{"entry":[{},{},"enable enforcement actions, or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"alternatively, not to enable"]},{"entry":[{},{},"enforcement actions at all."]},{"entry":[{},"Enforcement","All aspects of the policy are enabled."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In one embodiment, it may be desirable that there are no restrictions in terms of the movements between the states. A customer may choose to skip any of the policy or move from any one state to another. In addition to controlling the policy deployment states, the policy may also be disabled\u2014which results in the policy being ignored in the policy enforcement points.","While the DLP policy is used to control the state of the sub-components, it is possible for the sub-components representing the individual policy directives (e.g., ETRs) to have a different state than the DLP-policy. This may allow the user to change the individual policy directive of the policy to be in a different state\u2014for example, when adding a new directive to the policy or when troubleshooting a directive of the policy. Each policy directive may also maintain a corresponding representation of its state which maps to the values of the DLP policy state. These states may also be controlled independently at the directive level. For example, the audit state for a directive may be turned-off; by setting the directive in a disabled state. Similarly, Notify state may be turned off for a specific directive.","DLP Policy Properties","In one embodiment, the DLP policy may follow common set of properties exposed across other components that comprise the application area\u2014e.g., Microsoft Exchange\u00ae system\u2014and may include the following properties:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["NAME","BASE TYPE","RESTRICTIONS","DESCRIPTIONS"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Identity","String","Guid","ID of the object. Unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"and immutable. Can be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"specified at create time."]},{"entry":["Name","String","<64 Unicode","A user friendly name to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"chars","describe the object."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Recommended to be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"unique but may not be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"enforced by the system."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Name may be an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"alternative mechanism"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"used to identify the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"object and expected"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to be used by admins in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"PowerShell interface."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"May be changeable by"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the user."]},{"entry":["Description","String","Unicode chars","Description of the policy"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"template."]},{"entry":["State","Enum",{},"Indicates the desired state"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the DLP policy and its"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sub-components. While"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the DLP policy is used to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control the state of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sub-components, it is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"possible for the sub-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"components to have a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"different state than the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"DLP policy."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"DLP Policy Object Operations","In one embodiment, the main DLP policy object may follow common set of operations exposed across other components that comprise the application area\u2014e.g., Microsoft Exchange\u00ae system\u2014and may include the following operations:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["VERBS","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["New","Creates a new DLP policy from a template"]},{"entry":[{},"definition. The template may be an OOB"]},{"entry":[{},"template; or the contents of a template obtained"]},{"entry":[{},"from an ISV or other third party. If no template"]},{"entry":[{},"definition or content is specified, an empty DLP"]},{"entry":[{},"policy may be created with no policy elements."]},{"entry":["Get","May be a standard query task. Returns all or a"]},{"entry":[{},"subset of DLP policies in a tenant's space. DLP"]},{"entry":[{},"policy instances may be scoped to within a tenant"]},{"entry":[{},"scope since they represent the tenant's"]},{"entry":[{},"implementation of the policy components."]},{"entry":["Set","The Set operation may be used to modify"]},{"entry":[{},"parameters of the policy. May be used in the"]},{"entry":[{},"change of a DLP policy's state which may"]},{"entry":[{},"also change the state of other policy components"]},{"entry":[{},"that support state semantics."]},{"entry":["Remove","The Remove operation may delete the DLP policy"]},{"entry":[{},"and its associated components from the system."]},{"entry":[{},"The user may be requested to confirm if policy"]},{"entry":[{},"and data classification objects should be removed"]},{"entry":[{},"from the system."]},{"entry":["Import-","The Import-DLPPolicyCollection may allow the"]},{"entry":["DLPPolicyCollection","serialization of the policy components for"]},{"entry":[{},"backup\/transport and maintenance. The Import-"]},{"entry":[{},"DLPPolicyCollection may re-create the policy"]},{"entry":[{},"components from a previously serialized version."]},{"entry":["Export-","The Export-DLPPolicyCollection may allow the"]},{"entry":["DLPPolicyCollection","serialization of the policy components for"]},{"entry":[{},"backup\/transport and maintenance."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In one embodiment, a single DLP policy instance may have 0 to N policy directives that implement its behavior. This may be delivered through, e.g., Microsoft Exchange\u00ae transport rules. A transport rule may be part of 0 or 1 DLP policy instances. A single policy directive may allow the definition across any number of policy enforcement points, for example for both server side mail flow processing directives and the e-mail client processing directives.","In addition, a single DLP policy instance may have 0 to N data classification objects bound to it. The data classification specification defines what is considered sensitive content within the scope of the policy and how this content should be identified with the e-mail content. The interface for managing the DLP policy instance objects may be PowerShell, web interface or others. The DLP Policy may comprise the same or similar Verbs as disclosed for the DLP Policy Operations, as given above.","What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly, the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.","In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components, devices, circuits, systems and the like, the terms (including a reference to a \u201cmeans\u201d) used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., a functional equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure, which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard, it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for performing the acts and\/or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.","In addition, while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes,\u201d and \u201cincluding\u201d and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Exemplary embodiments are illustrated in referenced figures of the drawings. It is intended that the embodiments and figures disclosed herein are to be considered illustrative rather than restrictive.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
