---
title: Techniques for bypassing call screening in a call messaging system
abstract: A system, method, and computer-readable media for bypassing call screening in a call messaging system includes storing a call screening rule for a callee specifying one or more conditions under which the call screening rule applies to an incoming call to the callee and specifying one or more call screening actions to take when an incoming call to the callee is received under the one or more conditions. When an incoming call from the caller's device to the callee's device is received under the one or more conditions of the call screening rule, a determination is made whether a bypass condition exists, and if a bypass condition exists, the incoming call is connected to the callee's device without taking the one or more call screening actions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08681968&OS=08681968&RS=08681968
owner: RingCentral, Inc.
number: 08681968
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["BENEFIT CLAIM","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 the benefit as a Continuation of application Ser. No. 12\/237,213, filed Sep. 24, 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,275,110, which claims under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) the benefit of Provisional Appln. 60\/995,965, filed Sep. 28, 2007, the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. The applicant(s) hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application(s) or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application(s).","Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, as well as software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to filtering, screening and dispatching calls in relation to a communication network for packetized and\/or synchronous communications, including in situ filtering, screening and dispatching of active calls.","Traditional phone handling techniques to handle an incoming call are limited in capability. Presently, a callee typically screens a call through receipt of the caller's identification. A callee then has little flexibility when handling the call, especially when the callee is already connected to another caller. To illustrate, consider that a callee is connected to a first caller when a second caller rings through. Traditionally, the callee interrupts the connected call with the first caller (e.g., using \u201ccall waiting\u201d technology) to communicate with the second caller. Or, the callee can allow the caller to pass to voice mail, which is accessed by the callee after the second caller records a message.","While traditional techniques for call screening electronic messages and calls are functional, there are certain drawbacks to these techniques. Call waiting technology is disruptive to communication. Further, typical voicemail screening techniques add a time delay to determine the subject matter of voice message, as a callee usually accesses the content of the voicemail after the caller has completed recording a message (i.e., one-way communication). The callee then dials or otherwise rings the caller to complete communication between the two parties. In some cases, conventional approaches usually provide relatively rigid rules than enable a callee to enact predetermined call handling options.","It would be desirable to provide computing devices and systems, as well as software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with the conventional techniques for screening calls via packetized and\/or synchronous communication networks.","Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left-most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","106","110","102","140","108","142","109","106","116","113","115","114","116","110","102","115","122","114","124","106","106","102","108","109"]},"In one embodiment, call rule configuration manager  is configured to manage the modification of presentation rules in repository , filtering rules in repository , screening rules in repository , and call dispatching rules in repository . Either system administrator at computing device  or any of caller device , callee device , and callee device , if authorized, can interface with call rule configuration manager  to modify the rules. Repository  can include presenting rules, such as \u201cdo not disturb\u201d rules, \u201cforward calls to a provisioned telephone number\u201d rules, \u201cforward calls to an entered telephone number\u201d rules, \u201cbypass forwarding call plans for the next call\u201d rules, \u201cbypass forwarding call plans for some time duration\u201d rules, \u201cbypass all forwarding call plans\u201d rules, \u201cactivate call routing plans from menu selections\u201d rules, and the like. As an example, a caller that is leaving a user a voice message can be presented with call routing plans customized according to their caller ID or to a personal identification number (PIN). The caller can select a subsequent call routing plan from memory or can have the voice mail system play (i.e., present visually or audibly) available call routing plans, whereby the caller selects either none, one or multiple call routing plans from the presentations. According to at least some embodiments, the term \u201cpresentation rule\u201d can refer to a rule or a subset of processes for governing the presentation of call routing options or prompts to a user, the options or prompts being useable to invoke filtering, screening, or dispatching processes.","Call rule configuration manager  can be configured to manage the modification of filtering rules in repository , according to one embodiment. According to at least some embodiments, the term \u201cfiltering rule\u201d can refer to a rule or a subset of processes for governing the filtering of a call based on user-defined criteria that can invoke, for example, predetermined call routing prior to a call being received by callee devices  or . In some instances, a filtering rule can be applied to a call at call messaging system . In some embodiments, filtering can include rejecting or forwarding a call based on predetermined rules. For example, a user may apply a filtering rule to reject or forward all incoming calls (\u201cdo not disturb\u201d), or may specify a time of day, day of week, caller ID or the like to selectively reject or forward incoming calls. A user can provision the call routing system to play specific messages to callers, based upon the caller ID, caller history, the time of day, the call frequency, or from any combination of conditions.","Call rule configuration manager  can be configured to manage the modification of screening rules in repository , according to one embodiment. These rules can define default prompts, and a user can replace or augment these with personal prompts to ask a caller to provide identification. For example, consider that a caller to a telephone number has a menu played. The first menu item can be a prompt asking for the user name or the reason for this call or other information. The caller answers with some reason, and this reason is played to the callee. By listening to the reason and viewing the caller-ID, the callee can decide how to dispatch this call. For example, the following are applicable actions: answer this call, send this call to voice mail, send this call to another agent, and let callee or system default policies route this call. Note that speech recognition can evaluate and parse the caller reason for key words. Speech recognition of keywords can dispatch this call to user or system defined routing rules or to available agents. According to at least some embodiments, the term \u201cscreening rule\u201d can refer to a rule or a subset of processes for governing the screening of an active call at callee devices  or . In some instances, a screening rule can be applied to control which prompt or option can be presented and selected at callee devices  or . For example, screening rules can specify whether to present prompts or options to forward an active call, send an active call to voice mail and listen to the voice message as it is being recorded, communicate (e.g., by way of selecting a response, such as \u201cI will call you back\u201d) with the caller initiating the active call without, for example, interrupting a connected call in which the callee is already participating, and the like. A screening rule can be described as either a \u201cdefault screening rule\u201d or a \u201ccustomized screening rule.\u201d The term \u201cdefault screening rule\u201d can refer, at least in some embodiments, to predetermined rules that define how to screen calls prior to a callee device receiving a call, whereas the term \u201ccustomized screening rule\u201d can refer, at least in some embodiments, to rules that dynamically can be implemented to screen calls as a call is received at a callee device, without interrupting a pending other call.","Call rule configuration manager  can be configured to manage the modification of call dispatching rules in repository , according to one embodiment. According to at least some embodiments, the term \u201cdispatching rule\u201d can refer to a rule or a subset of processes for governing the actions that can be initiated at callee devices  or  to dispatch an active call. In some instances, a dispatching rule can be applied to control whether to perform any of the actions of forwarding an active call, sending an active call to voice mail (e.g., and listening to the voice message as it is being recorded), communicating with the caller initiating the active call, and the like. In particular, repository  can include rules relating to how to add prompts, speech recognition, and call dispatching rules to a user menu answer tree. The entire menu answer tree or parts of those rules can be reviewed, edited, saved from hosted web pages (e.g., computing device ), client applications, cell phone browsers and audio playback and edit routines. The menu answer tree and dispatching options can change with the time and date, with the caller-ID, with callee availability, and with scheduling tools, such as a calendaring system. In some embodiments, a dispatching action can be performed at callee device . In other embodiments, a dispatching action can be performed at call messaging system  or at a combination of elements shown in .","Screening engine  can be configured to implement call screening in association with either callee  or callee device , according to one embodiment. For example, when an inbound call rings a callee telephone, the callee (a potential destination answering endpoint) can lift the handset and hear menu options. For example, the callee might hear \u201cCaller (name) from telephone (number) is calling. Select 1 to answer, 2 to send to voice mail, 3 to play a response, 4 to direct contact information to your PC client, 5 to display contact history on your web browser.\u201d If the callee has information displayed on their computing device  or via a web browser, then the callee can view additional caller information by moving the PC mouse (or other cursor) over the caller name, a contact directory, or over a \u201cMore Information\u201d or \u201cHelp\u201d icon. The result can show caller information and caller history, or call routing options or people available to accept this call. According to at least some embodiments, screening engine  can be configured to effect active call screening and dispatching. In some instances, screening engine  can be configured to perform one or more of the following: present screening prompts at callee devices  or ; receive a response or input from the callee via user inputs; and, perform an action to dispatch with the active call. According to at least some embodiments, the functionalities and\/or structures of screening engine  (or portions thereof) can be implemented in call messaging system , callee device , or callee device , or a combination thereof. For purposes of describing the various embodiments of the invention, the term \u201cactive call\u201d can refer, at least in some cases, to a call made by a caller over any communications network, such that a callee receives a notification (for example, a ringing signal) that the call is pending, but the call is not yet connected at the callee. Further, the term \u201cactive call\u201d also can refer to a call routed responsive to, for example, user inputs provided to a call messaging system in situ to screen and dispatch an incoming call. As used herein, the term \u201cin situ\u201d can refer, at least in some embodiments, to initiating an action during the pendency of an 5 incoming call while, for example, an original connection with another active call is maintained interrupted (i.e., a first call to a callee need not be interrupted by a second call that is yet to be connected). Thus, an incoming call can be screened and dispatched without connecting to the incoming call, and without interrupting the original connection with the other active call. For example, call dispatching actions can be applied in situ to an active call being recorded as a voice message to listen to a voice message as it is recorded. In other examples, call dispatching actions can connect the callee to the caller during the voice message recording, and to do other similar actions.","In one embodiment, call messaging system  can be configured to enable a called party at callee device  to override the default system filtering, screening and call routing rules. For example, call messaging system  can implement a policy to block calls without caller ID, or a policy to block call transfers during a time-of-day, due to system activity, or from some other combination of call dispatching policies. In some embodiments, callee device  can be configured to generate a prompt that, if selected, can override filtering rules (e.g., predetermined filtering rules) to dispatch an active call. In other embodiments, call messaging system  can be configured to enable a called party at callee device  to override the user-customized system filtering, screening and call routing rules.","Depending upon the policies and system activity, call messaging system  can deliver to a caller options to leave voice mail or wait for an available endpoint. The caller can select the type of waiting, such as to select \u201c1\u201d to have the first available person call back, select \u201c2\u201d to listen to music (and then select between or among subsequent options to select their preferred type of music), and select \u201c3\u201d to leave voice mail. Call messaging system  can park the caller\/inbound call in a media server (or other servers configured to perform similar functions) and can follow call routing rules, such as a rule to notify one or more parties about the incoming call and to direct a party to pick up the call from a parked location that is transparent to the callee. Thus, the call routing system can notify one or more parties about an incoming call, thereby enabling the caller to be picked up without the callee knowing the parking method or parking slot that otherwise requires a caller to identify a specific extension or location at which to connect with the call.","In one embodiment, a software application implementing a softphone  can is able to carry out call answering and call dialing. For example, when enabled, the softphone  can receive notification of an inbound call. Notifications can be for one specific user, for a specific set of users, or for a large group of users where a user is identified by one or more telephone numbers. Softphone  can be configured to notify one or more callee's for all, or a defined subset, of incoming calls. For example, a softphone  may be used to notify a callee about incoming priority calls where priority is determined by time of day, detected presence, temporary duration policies, and other policies. Depending upon the enabled policy, softphone  can display caller-ID, destination number, contact name and information, call routing options, and other significant caller information. Additionally, softphone  can enable mouse-over actions to display additional caller information, such as a contact directory, caller contact history, call routing options, and people available to accept this call. Softphone  can be enabled to route incoming and parked calls. Softphone  can also select announcements to play back for one or for a group of calls. Softphone  can accept written text or text input by typing, by selecting existing text or \u201cscraping\u201d a web site or a document for preferred text and then converting the text to speech. Selected and \u201cscraped\u201d text may be edited in the softphone  before conversion to speech. Softphone  can listen to voice-mail in real-time as it is being recorded. Thus, softphone  can act as a real-time screening device and allows the user to interrupt a voice mail call (to \u201cbarge in\u201d) and disconnect or talk with the caller. The user can stop softphone  from listening to a recorded voice mail. Using softphone , a user can monitor the status of active calls and can barge into an active call making a 3-way conference, or the user can block the current callee from joining the conference. In addition, the user can whisper (i.e., communication to a subset of callees and callers in a multiple party call, such as a teleconference) to the callee without the caller hearing the whispered conversation.","Note that network  can include packet networks and switched networks, as well as any other suitable communications network. For example, private and\/or public internet and switching networks can be used, such as IP networks (including protocols TCP, UDP, HTTP, etc.) and switched networks (including public switched telephone networks (\u201cPSTN\u201d) or the like, as well as cellular (e.g., a digital cellular network), short message service (\u201cSMS\u201d) and other wireless networks.)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["201","260","270","230","265","280","210","220","102","108","109","280","259"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","280","290","330","220","370","340","340","306","340","280","340","340","370","280","340","370","250","290","306","350","317","345"]},"Call messaging system  can also include one or more configuration tools including a Web Server  to configure the rules for filtering, announcing, routing and completing calls. A computing device \u2014as a system administrator or an authorized user-can configure web server  to modify call action rules stored, for example, in repositories , , , and  (). As such, computing device  and\/or web server  can maintain a Database  (or any other storage mechanism) for storing system administrator rules and\/or end user defined rules. Examples of some tools that support inbound call processing and notification include client applications, such as contact management, appointment and calendar systems, any of which can be found in, for example, an email program.","Database  can store call history information for each inbound call, including active call identifiers (e.g., caller IDs) to receive call status and send active call commands. For example, database  can maintain data representing a first party calling-ID (ANI), a type of endpoint associated with the first calling party, such as a PSTN phone , a second destination endpoint DNIS, a result code (e.g., indicating a recipient status) if the call was connected or not connected, and the result of each prior call (e.g., whether the previous call history includes no answers at callee device  of ). Database  can also be configured to retain customer credit information, satisfaction information, and other customer profile information associated with each inbound caller-ID. Database  also can store call transfer, conferencing, recording, and customer feedback information.","Call messaging system  can include a database  that maintains default inbound call routing rules as well as user-defined call screening, media server prompts, call notification rules, default and user-defined dispatching rules. The Database  can contain inbound call routing rule duration timers to apply routing rules, for example, during business and non-business hours, and the circuit switch or softswitch  can apply the rule duration timer to each inbound call routing rule. The Database  can collect call answering endpoint information and revise call routing rules to include those endpoints in future call routing rules when an inbound call includes a matching caller ID.","End-users , , and  can define and store in the Database  custom call routing rules to augment or override the default call routing rules. Typically, end-users use the Web Server  interface to define custom call routing rules. End-users can also use a client application or the PSTN interface  to configure and select custom call routing rules.","For each inbound call, the circuit switch or softswitch  applies the identified inbound caller ID (ANI) and the Database  stored information and policies, which can include caller history, user-defined call routing policies, timers, and endpoint presence status, to filter and route the inbound call to a media server  or to one or multiple endpoints , , and . From the identified inbound caller ID and any stored information associated with the caller, the Database  can assign a priority to the inbound call.","Additionally, for each call routing, the circuit switch or softswitch  can access any of the default endpoint, the saved ANI, and the saved actual first calling endpoint and can apply all user-defined routing rules simultaneously or sequentially to ring any or all of these stored endpoints. Also, if the receiver is busy, then for a high priority call, the switch  can facilitate a caller to barge in to connect the inbound call to a receiving endpoint , , and . Similarly, a priority call can be conferenced into ongoing call endpoints.","In various embodiments, call messaging system  can provide a web interface, a softphone, default administrator configurations, and user-defined preferences to alert potential call receivers, enabling them to make decisions concerning which calls to answer, to redirect, and to ignore. The Database  can maintain system-defined and user-defined call data including prior call history, the inbound call information (including ANI, DNIS, CNAM), caller contact information, and other pertinent caller information. Embodiments of the invention can present any or all of this information to one or more potential call receivers allowing the receiver to choose whether to answer, how to direct the call elsewhere, and whether to ignore the inbound call.","Each user or the system administrator can allow or disallow a caller to barge in by interrupting an ongoing call to talk to one of the current call endpoints. As another option, from the caller parameters and assigned priority, the proposed system can add a call to an existing conference call. During any caller response analysis, the system  can park the inbound call at a media server  or other device interface, until the call disposition is decided and accepted by one or more call receivers. Further, each end-user , , and  can listen as a caller leaves a voice mail message and elect among disconnecting the call from voice mail, answering the call and disconnecting voice mail, cancelling the call and dropping the call from voice mail, and closing inbound call screening.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 6A to 6C","FIGS. 6A to 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","404","402","432","406","400","410","406","408","412","400","418","420","412","412","410","412","414","416","432","402","402","402","432","400","416","414","416","420","400","422","424","426","428","422","424","400","404","430","432","430","450","452","454","450","150","144"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","510","511","512","514","510","514"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["600","610","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 2"],"b":["652","602","614","614","632","634","652","652","652","260","230","265","210","220","280"]},"In operation, screening engine  can be configured to screen and dispatch an inbound call. While a call is active (i.e. still pending), communication device  can present a subset of prompts in association with interface . The prompts provide a callee with various action options regarding the inbound call based on, for example, screening rules  and call dispatching rules  of . After callee selects from the various action options, communication device  can communicate with a call messaging system to implement the selected dispatching action or can perform the dispatching action itself. Prompt  as a user input can be configured to provide in situ call forwarding. Upon detecting selection of prompt , processor  can execute instructions of the in situ call forwarding module  to provide for call forwarding of an active call. For example, in situ call forwarding module  can provide for overriding of default filtering rules (e.g., predetermine forwarding rules), as well as for specifying a destination number to which a call can be forwarded in real time (i.e., during the pendency of the active call).","Upon detecting selection of prompt , processor  can execute instructions of the in situ communication module  to provide communication with the caller during an active call. For example, in situ communication module  can generate a response to the caller without the callee device (e.g., communication device ) connecting with the caller device. In some instances, the response can be selected as one of a number of responses to provide the caller with, for example, a predetermined voice response (i.e., \u201cI will call you soon.\u201d). In at least one instance, the response can be generated during the pendency of an active call (e.g., the callee can enter text into interface  that can be transmitted as text or as text-to-speech audio).","Upon detecting selection of prompt , processor  can execute instructions of the in situ voicemail screening module  to provide for voice message screening of an active call by the callee during the recording of the voice message, and optionally, connecting with the caller during the recording of the voice message.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6B"],"b":["630","680","680","272","274","106","605","659","274","614","106","272","259","270","259","605","659"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","702","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","801","810","801"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 9A","b":["902","904","906","908","910","912","914","916","902","902","912"]},"In some examples, logic module  can be configured to control panel generator  to generate interfaces for implementing a call messaging system. Rendering engine  can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages, for example, to manipulate both content (e.g., as expressed in or including HTML, XML, image files, etc.) and formatting information (e.g., as expressed in or including CSS, XSL, etc.) for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interface  (). Interface module  can exchange panel presentation data, including content data, image data, audio data, as well as other data, between application  and another application (e.g., a host, client, web services-based, distributed (i.e., enterprise), application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d), operating system, program, procedure, or others) that can use data and information generated from panel generator  to render presented panels (or windows) on a display screen. In other examples, the above-described techniques and elements can be varied in design, implementation, and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In one embodiment, logic module  can include a call rule configuration manager  that is configured to include structure and\/or functionality similar to one or more previously-described call rule configuration managers, one of which is exemplified in . In one embodiment, logic module  can include a screening engine  that is configured to include structure and\/or functionality similar to one or more previously-described screening engines, according to various embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["920","922","924","912","920","926","928","930","932","934","920","926","928","930","932"]},"In some examples, logic module  and panel generator  can be implemented as part of application , which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules, such as interface module , display module , rendering module , and repository . Data bus  can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application  and interface module , display module , rendering module , and repository . In some instances, application  can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component (i.e., module) of another application. Data or information (including, for example, data for describing one or more attributes of a call, responses communicated in situ during an active call, and the like) associated with a panel can be stored in repository , which can be implemented using a database, data store, data warehouse, or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples, more, fewer, or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1002","1004","1006","1008","1010","1012","1014","1016","1018","1018","1018"]},"According to some examples, computing device  can perform specific operations in which processor  executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage device  or disk drive . In some examples, hard-wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown, system memory  includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system (\u201cO\/S\u201d) , an application , and a screening module , as well as in situ call forwarding (\u201cICF\u201d) module  in situ communication (\u201cIC\u201d) module , and in situ voicemail screening (\u201cIVR\u201d) module .","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers, at least in one embodiment, to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium can take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","In some examples, execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples, two or more computing systems or devices  coupled by communication link  (e.g., LAN, PSTN, or wireless network) can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system or device  can transmit and receive messages, data, and instructions, including program code (i.e., application code) through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in disk drive , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment, computing system or device  can be implemented as a hand-held device, such as a mobile phone  or a handheld personal computer, or combination mobile phone\/computer. But in other embodiments computing system or device  can be implemented as a personal computer (i.e., a desk top computer) or any other computing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1102","1104","1106","1108","1110","1112","1114","1116","1118"]},"In some examples, one or more panels for active call filtering, screening, and dispatching can be presented on interface , which can be an interface for an application, or as a web browsing program, Internet content portal, client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer , notebook computer (\u201cnotebook\u201d or \u201claptop\u201d) , smart phone , personal digital assistant (\u201cPDA\u201d) , server , and administrator computer  can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data, which can be implemented to generate, for example, prompts in interface . In some cases, an operating system installed on computer  can communicate (i.e., via an API) content data and\/or other related data to another application installed on computer  to render (i.e., interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface) one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples, different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment, interface  can include any number and\/or any type of display environments, such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above-described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.","In at least some of the embodiments of the invention, the structures and\/or functions of any of the above-described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software, hardware, firmware, circuitry, or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in , as well as their functionality, can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively, the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub-elements, if any. As software, the above-described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages, frameworks, syntax, applications, protocols, objects, or techniques, including C, Objective C, C++, C#, Flex\u2122, Fireworks\u00ae, Java\u2122, Javascript\u2122, AJAX, COBOL, Fortran, ADA, XML, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, HTTP, XMPP, and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.","The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact, this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment; rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.","Thus, the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed; many alternatives, modifications, equivalents, and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus, the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further, the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications; they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably, not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention; rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims, elements and\/or operations do not imply any particular order of operation, unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention and its various embodiments are more fully appreciated in connection with the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
