---
title: Parser, code generator, and data calculation and transformation engine for spreadsheet calculations
abstract: A system including spreadsheet sheets, makes calculations and data transformations, which is available through a programming interface, and conforms to the grammar and syntax of a target software development language is presented. The system includes an Object Model with Data Structures representing entities involved in spreadsheets. The system includes a Parser and Code Generator that extracts data from a body of spreadsheet data, instantiates instances of Data Structures of the Object Model to represent the spreadsheet data, parses the data and formulas contained in the cells of the spreadsheets, iterates through the instantiated instances of the Data Structures, and generates source code that performs the calculations and data transformations embodied in the spreadsheet data. The system includes a Calculation Engine with software base classes that implement the common structural and data access features of spreadsheet data, and further implement the operations of common spreadsheet functions and operators.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08656348&OS=08656348&RS=08656348
owner: Knowledge Dynamics, Inc.
number: 08656348
owner_city: Glenview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS AND PRESENTLY PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/901,875, filed Oct. 11, 2010, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/301,734, filed Dec. 12, 2005 (now U.S. Pat. No. 7,836,425), which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/222,730, filed Aug. 15, 2002 (now U.S. Pat. No. 7,010,779), which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/312,981, filed Aug. 16, 2001, the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","The present invention pertains in general to software based calculation and data transformation engines, and more particularly, to conversion of the calculation and data transformation features of spreadsheet data into source code of a target software development language for independent run-time execution.","Spreadsheet applications for computers, such as IBM's Lotus 123\u00ae and Microsoft\u00ae Excel, have become very popular analysis and communication tools. Spreadsheets are typically used to perform numerical analyses and \u2018what if\u2019 analyses, to simulate complex systems, and to communicate ideas. Many users are familiar with the spreadsheet metaphor. With little or no training, users can create complex, interrelated calculations and data transformations in spreadsheet applications.","The rapid growth and adoption of the Internet has spawned an explosion in web-based distribution of application functionality and server-based applications. Many such distributed and server-based applications have underlying logic that comprises complex calculations and data transformations. Development of such functionality in software language source code can be effort intensive, tedious, and error-prone. Furthermore, creating such functionality requires highly skilled software developers.","Being able to embed the calculations and data transformations of a spreadsheet directly into stand-alone applications, distributed applications, and server-based applications can be very powerful. Some spreadsheet applications have application programming interfaces (APIs) that allow them to provide calculation and data transformation as a service to other applications. But distributing and using spreadsheets in this way requires that users have the same or a compatible spreadsheet application as the one in which the spreadsheet was created.","Using spreadsheet applications as calculation engines in server-based applications also has limitations. Background art spreadsheet applications are meant for single users and cannot scale to support high-volume server-side processing. Also, the User Interface and display features of spreadsheet applications carry significant overhead.","There are background art spreadsheet components available that can read and write spreadsheet data created by popular spreadsheet applications and perform calculations at runtime. These components do facilitate the integration of spreadsheet functionality into other distributed applications or server-based applications. But these components operate internally in the same way spreadsheet applications do: they interpret Cell formulas at runtime. Runtime interpretation of Cell formulas is generally considered to be a desirable feature because it allows Cell formulas to be changed at runtime. But in many application scenarios, calculations and data transformations need to remain unchanged at runtime. So when a spreadsheet component is used as a calculation engine in such an application, then the runtime Cell formula interpretation feature adds memory and processing overhead without adding any value. Background art spreadsheet components are typically larger than 1 Megabyte in size.","When using background art spreadsheet components in server-based applications, the overhead associated with the User Interface and runtime cell formula interpretation features can negatively impact server performance, both from processing speed and memory usage standpoints. When using background art spreadsheet components in distributed applications, the overhead can also significantly degrade download performance.","Some spreadsheet applications and spreadsheet components use mechanisms to represent simple cell formulas as machine code during idle time processing. While this can reduce the negative performance impact related to run-time cell formula interpretation, it maintains the memory overhead and it can limit the spreadsheet application or spreadsheet component to running on only a single platform.","It would be desirable to provide a facility for automatically generating source code from spreadsheet data such that the generated source code embodies the calculations and data transformations embodied in the spreadsheet data. The generated source code may then be integrated into a wide variety of different types of applications or other utilization mechanisms. The calculations and data transformation may allow features to be accessed by users who do not have a spreadsheet application or spreadsheet component, or who have a spreadsheet application or spreadsheet component that is incompatible with the original spreadsheet application. The calculations and data transformation may protect features from being modified accidentally or deliberately. Thus, spreadsheet applications may be used as design tools for creating and testing complex, interrelated calculation functionality for use in a wide variety of applications. The calculations and data transformation allows features to be embedded into high-volume server architectures, such as mainframe computers or super computers, that are not fully supported by background art spreadsheet applications or components. Moreover, the calculations and data transformation may allow features to be embedded into disparate or distributed computing environments, such as web-browsers, embedded systems, gaming consoles, cell phones, and personal digital assistants (PDAs), that are not fully supported by background art spreadsheet applications or components.","One of the most labor-intensive aspects of software development is testing to verify that the software meets specifications. In many software development efforts, major parts of the system must be built before any of the parts can be tested. This makes it difficult to localize the origin of errors. But when using a spreadsheet to develop the core logic of a system it is easy to create multiple sets of test data and switch between the sets to test the spreadsheet. Therefore, it would be desirable to provide a core functionality that can be verified locally, before deployment and without writing any code.","Developing complex logic in a spreadsheet is much more efficient than hand-coding in a software language. The visual nature of spreadsheets and usability features like drag-copy have been critical to their widespread adoption. When these productivity enhancers are applied to programming, the effects are no less dramatic. Developers can create calculations and data transformation routines in a spreadsheet in a fraction of the time that it takes to do the same in code. Sophisticated systems may incorporate with built-in functions. Beginning developers can be effective at coding logic that might otherwise require a very skilled resource.","Briefly summarized, the present invention relates to source code generator programming interfaces defined to facilitate the analysis of a body of spreadsheet data and the generation of software source code representative of the body of spreadsheet data. The generated software source code embodies structural aspects of the body of spreadsheet data. The calculations and data transformations are performed thorough a plurality of spreadsheet sheets. This makes the calculations and data transformations available through a programming interface. Further, the grammar and syntax is conformed to a target software development language.","A preferred embodiment of the Parser and Code Generator integrated directly into a spreadsheet application. The preferred embodiment optionally generates source code conforming to the syntax of multiple target software development languages, including Java\u00ae by Sun Microsystems, C, C++, and others.","With reference to the figures and particularly , a block diagram of the representative computer hardware is shown illustrating a computer system implementing a source code generator with methods employing a process and computer-readable medium containing instructions for controlling the computer system, which comprises a processor or CPU  receiving input from a keyed input device  or pointing device . A display device  and printing device  are provided for output and volatile storage  and non-volatile storage  may include computer-readable media and random access memory and the like. As described further below, a spreadsheet application  is employed with a plurality of sheets from which a data structure including calculation files are used for corresponding spreadsheet data. A data acquisition interface is used for receiving the spreadsheet data, which is transferable to the calculation files. A parser and source code generator  is used for extracting information from the data structure. An information processor facilitated the use of CPU  for performing a data transformation of extracted information stored in said data structure through said programming interface to conform to the grammar and syntax of a target software development language. A calculation engine  is provided, which has the following benefits:","(a) allowing spreadsheet applications to be relied upon to verify well-formedness of cell formulas;","(b) reducing distribution size by eliminating the overhead of a spreadsheet application or spreadsheet component;","(c) reducing distribution size by eliminating the overhead of User Interface features and run-time cell formula interpretation features;","(d) allowing the generated code to be executed on any platform which supports a target software development language;","(e) improving the performance of the calculations and data transformation features because they are embodied in compiled code rather than being interpreted at runtime;","(f) improving the performance of the calculations and data transformation features because optimizing compilers can optimize for a target platform;","Within the field of object orientation, the concepts of encapsulation, polymorphism, and inheritance are well known. A Class is an embodiment of characteristics and behaviors. An instance of a Class is an object that exhibits the characteristics and behaviors of the Class. There are many well-known and widely available references describing object-oriented principles in great detail.","Within the field of computer applications, spreadsheet concepts are well known. In a typical background art spreadsheet application, a body of spreadsheet data comprises a singleton Workbook comprising a plurality of Worksheets. Worksheets comprise a plurality of Cells that can contain literal data values or formulas that are dependent on other Cells. Individual Cells as well as Ranges of Cells can be Named and can be referred to and accessed by Name. There are many well-known and widely available references describing spreadsheet principles and specific spreadsheet applications and components in great detail.","The disclosed invention comprises several data structures that represent the various entities of a spreadsheet. In a preferred embodiment, the data structures are object-oriented software classes that embody characteristics and behaviors of said spreadsheet entities. The Data Structures may be representative of spreadsheet entities, which may be instantiated as Extensible Markup Language (\u201cXML\u201d) data representative of spreadsheet entities. Some of these Data Structures are considered at code-generation time and some are considered at runtime. For the purposes of specification, it is useful to define said data structures:","In a preferred embodiment, the data structures of the Parser and Code Generator comprise the following object oriented software classes: KDBook, KDSheet, KDCell, KDName, KDFunc, KDFuncArg, KDColorScheme, KDEncoder, KDParser, KDCodeSegment, and KDSharedFormula.","In background art spreadsheet-applications and components, the global data aspects of a body of spreadsheet data are commonly referred to as a \u2018workbook\u2019 or a \u2018book\u2019. KDBook is a software Data Structure that represents the global data aspects of a body of spreadsheet data. In a preferred embodiment, KDBook is an object-oriented software class. A singleton instance of KDBook is instantiated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Field",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Name","The global name of the body of spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"data. The value of the Name field is derived"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the filename of the body of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":[{},"Sheets","Collection of references to KDSheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instances that represent the sheets in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"body spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":[{},"Names","Collection of references to KDName"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instances that represent the named cells or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ranges of cells defined in the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"data."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"GetCode","A function that assembles the source code"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representative of the global aspects of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"body of spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":[{},"WriteCode","A function that writes the representative"]},{"entry":[{},{},"source code to a file, the name of which"]},{"entry":[{},{},"may be specified by the user or derived"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the filename of the body of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDSheet is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a single spreadsheet sheet within a body of spreadsheet data. In background art spreadsheet applications and components, these are commonly referred to as \u2018worksheet\u2019 or \u2018sheet\u2019. In a preferred embodiment, KDSheet is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDSheet is instantiated for each sheet in the body of spreadsheet data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["SheetName","The name of the spreadsheet sheet"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by the KDSheet instance."]},{"entry":["Index","The one-based index of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"sheet represented by the KDSheet instance."]},{"entry":["Book","A reference to the instance of KDBook that"]},{"entry":[{},"represents the global aspects of the body of"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":["StartCell","A reference indicating the Top Left cell of"]},{"entry":[{},"the spreadsheet sheet for which code is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated. May be set by the user to limit"]},{"entry":[{},"the range of cells for which code is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated."]},{"entry":["EndCell","A reference indicating the Bottom Right"]},{"entry":[{},"cell of the spreadsheet sheet for which code"]},{"entry":[{},"is generated. May be set by the user to limit"]},{"entry":[{},"the range of cells for which code is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated."]},{"entry":["Cells","Collection of KDCell instances that"]},{"entry":[{},"represent the cells in said sheet."]},{"entry":["SharedFormulas Collection",{}]},{"entry":["of references to",{}]},{"entry":["KDSharedFormula",{}]},{"entry":["instances that represent",{}]},{"entry":["the cell formulas of a",{}]},{"entry":["plurality of spreadsheet",{}]},{"entry":["cells.",{}]},{"entry":["Method",{}]},{"entry":["GetCode","A function that assembles the source code"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of the data and calculation"]},{"entry":[{},"aspects of the sheet of spreadsheet data"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by the instance of KDSheet."]},{"entry":["WriteCode","A function that writes the representative"]},{"entry":[{},"source code to a file, the name of which"]},{"entry":[{},"may be specified by the user or derived"]},{"entry":[{},"from the name of the spreadsheet sheet."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDCell is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a single spreadsheet cell within a spreadsheet sheet. In a preferred embodiment, KDCell is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDCell is instantiated for each cell on said spreadsheet sheet. The KDCell includes the following members.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["Sheet","A reference to the instance of KDSheet that"]},{"entry":[{},"represents the aspects of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"sheet which contains the spreadsheet cell"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by the current instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDCell."]},{"entry":["Row","The row of the represented spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell."]},{"entry":["Col","The column of the represented spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell."]},{"entry":["RC","The text based identifier of the represented"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell's row and column."]},{"entry":["RawFormula","The text of the raw spreadsheet cell"]},{"entry":[{},"formula in the syntax of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"application."]},{"entry":["HasDependents","An indicator of whether other spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cells depend on (refer to) the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell represented by the current instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDCell."]},{"entry":["HasDeclaration","An indicator indicating whether a source"]},{"entry":[{},"code declaration should be generated for"]},{"entry":[{},"the spreadsheet cell represented by the"]},{"entry":[{},"current instance of KDCell."]},{"entry":["HasFormula","An indicator of whether the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell represented by the current instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDCell contains a cell formula."]},{"entry":["Persistent","An indicator of whether the current"]},{"entry":[{},"instance of KDCell should be marked as"]},{"entry":[{},"persistable."]},{"entry":["ForeColor","An indicator of the foreground color of the"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell represented by the current"]},{"entry":[{},"instance of KDCell."]},{"entry":["BackColor","An indicator of the background color of the"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell represented by the current"]},{"entry":[{},"instance of KDCell."]},{"entry":["FormulaSourceCode","The source code representative formula of"]},{"entry":[{},"the spreadsheet cell. Only populated where"]},{"entry":[{},"the represented spreadsheet cell contains a"]},{"entry":[{},"cell formula rather than a literal data value."]},{"entry":["CodeSegments","An ordered collection of sub-strings of"]},{"entry":[{},"source code segments representative of the"]},{"entry":[{},"function calls and parameters in a cell"]},{"entry":[{},"formula."]},{"entry":["SharedFormula","A reference to an instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"SharedFormula (defined below)"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of source code called by"]},{"entry":[{},"source code representative of cell formulas"]},{"entry":[{},"with similar formula structures. Only"]},{"entry":[{},"populated where the represented"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell contains a cell formula"]},{"entry":[{},"similar enough to other cell formulas that"]},{"entry":[{},"total source code size can be reduced by"]},{"entry":[{},"having the cells call the shared formula"]},{"entry":[{},"rather than implement the formula"]},{"entry":[{},"individually."]},{"entry":["SharedFormulaSourceCode","The source code to call a shared formula"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of the cell formula. Only"]},{"entry":[{},"populated where the represented"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell contains a cell formula"]},{"entry":[{},"rather than a literal data value."]},{"entry":["Method",{}]},{"entry":["GetCode","A function that assembles the source code"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of the calculation aspects of"]},{"entry":[{},"the spreadsheet cell represented by the"]},{"entry":[{},"instance of KDCell. The method is only"]},{"entry":[{},"executed for cells that contain a formula"]},{"entry":[{},"rather than a value."]},{"entry":["GetDeclaration","A function that assembles the source code"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of the data and identification"]},{"entry":[{},"aspects of the spreadsheet cell represented"]},{"entry":[{},"by the instance of KDCell."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDName is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a named range of spreadsheet cells within a spreadsheet sheet. In a preferred embodiment, KDName is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDName is instantiated for each named range of spreadsheet cells within said body of spreadsheet data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Name","The text name of the named spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"range represented by the KDName"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance."]},{"entry":[{},"Cell","A reference the KDCell instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representing the single spreadsheet cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"named by the spreadsheet name represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by the current instance of KDName. Only"]},{"entry":[{},{},"populated for spreadsheet names that name"]},{"entry":[{},{},"a single spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":[{},"TLCell","A reference to the KDCell instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representing the Top Left spreadsheet cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"of the range of spreadsheet cells named by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the spreadsheet name represented by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"current instance of KDName. For"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet names that represent a single"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cell, the KDName. TLCell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"property is equal to the KDName.Cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"property."]},{"entry":[{},"BRCell","A reference to the KDCell instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representing the Bottom Right spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"cell of the range of spreadsheet cells named"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by the spreadsheet name represented by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"current instance of KDName. For"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet names that represent a single"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cell, the KDName.BRCell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"property is equal to the KDName.Cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"property."]},{"entry":[{},"RangeRC","The text, in the syntax of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"application, that specifies the range of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cells named by the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"name."]},{"entry":[{},"RefersTo","An indicator of whether the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet name refers to a single"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cell or a range of spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"cells. One of rtCell, rtVerticalVector,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"rtHorizontalVector, rtMatrix, rtCellList."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment, KDName has"]},{"entry":[{},{},"no member methods."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDFunc is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of built-in or user-defined spreadsheet functions that can be used in spreadsheet cell formulas. In a preferred embodiment, KDFunc is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDFunc is instantiated for each supported spreadsheet function. The use of KDFunc allows the present invention to be easily extended to support additional built-in spreadsheet functions and unanticipated user-defined functions by simply adding more instances of KDFunc and KDFuncArg (described below). KDFunc instances representative of built-in spreadsheet functions are included in the invention. KDFunc instances representative of user-defined functions can be dynamically included from an external data source.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["SpreadsheetFuncName","The name of the supported function"]},{"entry":[{},"specified in the syntax of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"application."]},{"entry":["TargetCodeFuncName","The name of the supported function"]},{"entry":[{},"specified in the syntax of the target"]},{"entry":[{},"software development language."]},{"entry":["TargetSourceCode","The source code implementation of the"]},{"entry":[{},"supported built-in or user-defined"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet function specified in the syntax"]},{"entry":[{},"of the target software development"]},{"entry":[{},"language."]},{"entry":["bUserDefined","A Boolean indicator indicating whether the"]},{"entry":[{},"Function is used is user-defined. For built-"]},{"entry":[{},"in spreadsheet functions, the value of this"]},{"entry":[{},"property is \u2018False\u2019. For user-defined"]},{"entry":[{},"functions, it is \u2018True\u2019."]},{"entry":["bused","A Boolean indicator indicating whether the"]},{"entry":[{},"Function is used in the spreadsheet and"]},{"entry":[{},"therefore requires that the implementation"]},{"entry":[{},"held in TargetSourceCode be included in"]},{"entry":[{},"the generated source code. The value of"]},{"entry":[{},"bUsed is initially \u2018False\u2019 but is changed to"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018True\u2019 if the function is encountered in a"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cell formula during parsing."]},{"entry":["Arguments","An ordered Collection of KDFuncArg"]},{"entry":[{},"instances that represent the arguments of"]},{"entry":[{},"the represented built-in or user-defined"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet function."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDFuncArg is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of arguments of built-in or user-defined spreadsheet functions that can be used in spreadsheet cell formulas. In a preferred embodiment, KDFuncArg is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDFuncArg is instantiated for each argument accepted by each supported spreadsheet function. The use of KDFuncArg allows the present invention to easily support the representation of built-in or user-defined spreadsheet functions that take any number of arguments. Some built-in or user-defined spreadsheet functions take no arguments, some take a fixed number of arguments, some have optional arguments, and some can take a variable-length list of arguments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Func","A reference to the instance of KDFunc that"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represents the aspects of the built-in or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"user-defined spreadsheet function, an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"argument of which is represented by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"current instance of KDFuncArg."]},{"entry":[{},"N","The sequence ordinal of the argument"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented by the current instance of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDFuncArg. For the first argument, the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value of this property is \u20181\u2019; for the second"]},{"entry":[{},{},"argument, the value of this property is \u20182\u2019,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and so on."]},{"entry":[{},"ArgumentType","An indicator of the type of argument of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"current argument of the supported"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet function. One of: argCellRef,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"argExpression, argOptional, or argList."]},{"entry":[{},{},"argCellRef indicates that the Nth argument"]},{"entry":[{},{},"must be a reference to a spreadsheet cell or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"a name of a single spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":[{},{},"argExpression indicates that the Nth"]},{"entry":[{},{},"argument can be any expression that has a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value, including a static value, a reference"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to another cell, or a call to another built-in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or user-defined spreadsheet function."]},{"entry":[{},{},"argOptional indicates that there may or may"]},{"entry":[{},{},"not be an Nth argument in the built-in or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"user-defined spreadsheet function. If an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of KDFuncArg is defined with"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ArgumentType = argOptional then every"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of KDFuncArg that follows said"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance (if any) must have its"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ArgumentType property equal to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"argOptional. argList indicates that the built-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"in or user-defined spreadsheet function"]},{"entry":[{},{},"takes a variable-length list of arguments. If"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the function takes a variable length list of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"arguments, then one and only one instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"of KDFuncArg should be instantiated for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the built-in or user-defined spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"function, and its ArgumentType field must"]},{"entry":[{},{},"be equal to argList."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDCodeSegment is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a segment of code in a cell formula. In a preferred embodiment, KDCodeSegment is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDCodeSegment is instantiated for each contiguous code segment or parameterizable reference in a cell formula. The use of KDCodeSegment allows the output of present invention to be optimized by identifying spreadsheet cells with cell formulas similar enough that total generated source code size can be reduced by having multiple cells call the shared formula rather than implement the formula individually.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Code","The source code characters in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDCodeSegment."]},{"entry":[{},"Type","An indicator of the type of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDCodeSegment. One of: segCode,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"segName, segRCRangeRef, or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"segRCCellRef. segCode indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"segment is source code. segName indicates"]},{"entry":[{},{},"that the segment represents a reference to a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"named cell or range. segRCRangeRef"]},{"entry":[{},{},"indicates that the segment represents a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reference to a range of cells. segRCCellRef"]},{"entry":[{},{},"indicates that the segment represents a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reference to a cell."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDSharedFormula is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a cell formula formation that is common to multiple cells. In a preferred embodiment, KDSharedFormula is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDSharedFormula is instantiated where at least two cells are similar enough that total generated source code size can be reduced by having multiple cells call a shared formula rather than implement the formula individually.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["SharedFormulaName","The name of the source code function"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by SharedFormula."]},{"entry":["SharedFormulaDefinition","The source code definition of the function"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by SharedFormula."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDColorScheme is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a particular combination of colors of spreadsheet cell features. In a preferred embodiment, KDColorScheme is an object-oriented software class. An instance of KDColorScheme is instantiated for each color scheme defined by the user in said body of spreadsheet data. The KDColorScheme allows the user to indicate which spreadsheet cells should be included in code generation, excluded from code generation, and marked as persistent, by specifying the foreground and background colors of the spreadsheet cell.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"BackColor","Identifier of the background color of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":[{},"ForeColor","Identifier of the foreground (font) color of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDEncoder is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a parser and code generator that generates software source code representative of a body of spreadsheet data. In a preferred embodiment, KDEncoder is an object-oriented software class. A singleton instance of KDEncoder is instantiated to generate said software source code.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["SpreadsheetBook","A reference to a spreadsheet application"]},{"entry":[{},"singleton object that comprises the global"]},{"entry":[{},"aspects of the body of spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":["Book","A reference to the singleton instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDBook instantiated to represent the"]},{"entry":[{},"global aspects of the body of spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"data."]},{"entry":["OutputLocation","The user-specified file system path to the"]},{"entry":[{},"folder or directory where generated source"]},{"entry":[{},"code files are to be deposited."]},{"entry":["PackageName","A preferred embodiment of the present"]},{"entry":[{},"invention generates source code that"]},{"entry":[{},"conforms to the Java\u2009\u00ae. software language"]},{"entry":[{},"by Sun Microsystems. The PackageName"]},{"entry":[{},"field directs that said generated software"]},{"entry":[{},"source code contain the user-specified"]},{"entry":[{},"PackageName field value as a Package"]},{"entry":[{},"descriptor consistent with the Package"]},{"entry":[{},"construct of the Java\u2009\u00ae software language"]},{"entry":[{},"by Sun Microsystems."]},{"entry":["ConsiderDependencies","An indicator of whether said source code"]},{"entry":[{},"generation process should generate source"]},{"entry":[{},"code for all spreadsheet cells that have"]},{"entry":[{},"dependencies even if they are otherwise"]},{"entry":[{},"outside of the inclusion conditions."]},{"entry":["SpreadsheetBook","A reference to a spreadsheet application"]},{"entry":[{},"singleton object that comprises the global"]},{"entry":[{},"aspects of the body of spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":["Book","A reference to the singleton instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDBook instantiated to represent the"]},{"entry":[{},"global aspects of the body of spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"data."]},{"entry":["OutputLocation","The user-specified file system path to the"]},{"entry":[{},"folder or directory where generated source"]},{"entry":[{},"code files are to be deposited."]},{"entry":["PackageName","A preferred embodiment of the present"]},{"entry":[{},"invention generates source code that"]},{"entry":[{},"conforms to the Java software language."]},{"entry":[{},"The PackageName field directs that said"]},{"entry":[{},"generated software source code contain the"]},{"entry":[{},"user-specified PackageName field value as"]},{"entry":[{},"a Package descriptor consistent with the"]},{"entry":[{},"Package construct of the Java software"]},{"entry":[{},"language."]},{"entry":["ConsiderDependencies","An indicator of whether said source code"]},{"entry":[{},"generation process should generate source"]},{"entry":[{},"code for all spreadsheet cells that have"]},{"entry":[{},"dependencies even if they are otherwise"]},{"entry":[{},"outside of the inclusion conditions."]},{"entry":["SizeOptimize","An indicator of whether said source code"]},{"entry":[{},"generation process should try to reduce the"]},{"entry":[{},"size of generated code by replacing"]},{"entry":[{},"individual implementations of source code"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of similarly structured cell"]},{"entry":[{},"formulas with calls to shared functions"]},{"entry":[{},"representative of said similarly structured"]},{"entry":[{},"cell formulas."]},{"entry":["IncludeColorSchemes","Collection of references to"]},{"entry":[{},"KDColorScheme instances that represent"]},{"entry":[{},"all the color schemes of spreadsheet cells"]},{"entry":[{},"for which representative source code"]},{"entry":[{},"should be generated, even if the"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cells are otherwise outside of"]},{"entry":[{},"the inclusion conditions."]},{"entry":["ExcludeColorSchemes","Collection of references to"]},{"entry":[{},"KDColorScheme instances that represent"]},{"entry":[{},"all the color schemes of spreadsheet cells"]},{"entry":[{},"for which representative source code"]},{"entry":[{},"should not be generated, even if the"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet cells are otherwise in most of"]},{"entry":[{},"the inclusion conditions."]},{"entry":["PersistentColorSchemes","Collection of references to"]},{"entry":[{},"KDColorScheme instances that represent"]},{"entry":[{},"all the color schemes of spreadsheet cells"]},{"entry":[{},"for which representative source code will"]},{"entry":[{},"be generated and for which said"]},{"entry":[{},"representative source code will indicate that"]},{"entry":[{},"the cells should be marked as persistent."]},{"entry":["Parser","A reference a KDParser instance that is"]},{"entry":[{},"used to generate source code representative"]},{"entry":[{},"of individual spreadsheet cell formulas."]},{"entry":["Method",{}]},{"entry":["ConnectBook","A function that instantiates an instance of"]},{"entry":[{},"KDBook and connects it via a property"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to the spreadsheet application"]},{"entry":[{},"singleton object that comprises the global"]},{"entry":[{},"aspects of the body of spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":["ConnectSheet","A function that is called for each"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet sheet in the body of"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet data to instantiate an instance"]},{"entry":[{},"of KDSheet and connect it via a property"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to the represented spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"sheet. The properties of the KDSheet"]},{"entry":[{},"instances are also populated with relevant"]},{"entry":[{},"fields that describe the spreadsheet sheet,"]},{"entry":[{},"and with a reference to the singleton"]},{"entry":[{},"instantiated KDBook instance."]},{"entry":["ConnectNames","A function that is called for each"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet name in the body of"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet data to instantiate an instance"]},{"entry":[{},"of KDName and connect it via a property"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to the represented spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"name. The properties of the KDName"]},{"entry":[{},"instances are also populated with relevant"]},{"entry":[{},"fields that describe the spreadsheet name,"]},{"entry":[{},"and with a reference to the singleton"]},{"entry":[{},"instantiated KDBook instance."]},{"entry":["GetColorSchemes","A function that searches the body of"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet data for user-defined color"]},{"entry":[{},"schemes that indicate which cells are to be"]},{"entry":[{},"included, excluded, and or marked as"]},{"entry":[{},"persistent in the generated source code. An"]},{"entry":[{},"instance of KDColorScheme is instantiated"]},{"entry":[{},"and stored in the corresponding"]},{"entry":[{},"KDEncoder field for each color scheme"]},{"entry":[{},"found."]},{"entry":["ParseCellFormulas","A function that iterates through each"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet sheet and each spreadsheet cell"]},{"entry":[{},"within said sheet to generate and store the"]},{"entry":[{},"source code representative of the cell"]},{"entry":[{},"formula for each of said spreadsheet cells."]},{"entry":["WriteCode","A function that writes the generated source"]},{"entry":[{},"code representative of the body of"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet data to files in the said"]},{"entry":[{},"OutputLocation."]},{"entry":["DeployCode","A function that further processes said"]},{"entry":[{},"generated source code to prepare it for"]},{"entry":[{},"deployment in a target execution"]},{"entry":[{},"environment."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDParser is a software Data Structure that represents aspects of a recursive descent expression parser that parses spreadsheet cell formulas and generates software source code representative of the calculations and data transformations of said spreadsheet cell formulas. In a preferred embodiment, KDParser is an object-oriented software class. A singleton instance of KDParser is instantiated to parse said cell formulas and generate said representative source code. All cell formula parsing functionality is embodied in this class. In a preferred embodiment, KDParser parses a cell formula and generates source code conforming to the grammar and syntax of a software development language, such as the Java\u00ae language by Sun Microsystems. Various derivations of KDParser support various target software development languages, such as Visual Basic\u00ae, VBScript\u00ae, Jscript\u00ae and Microsoft Visual Basic\u00ae for Applications by Microsoft, Basic, Assembler, C++, C#, Fortran, COBOL and other existing and unanticipated target software development languages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["Funcs","A collection of KDFunc instances that"]},{"entry":[{},"represent the built-in and user-defined"]},{"entry":[{},"spreadsheet functions."]},{"entry":["Method",{}]},{"entry":["Encode","Function that parses a complete spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell formula and generates representative"]},{"entry":[{},"source code in a target software"]},{"entry":[{},"development language. Calls"]},{"entry":[{},"GetSubExprSourceCode for subexpressions"]},{"entry":[{},"within cell formula."]},{"entry":["GetSubExprSourceCode","Recursive method that parses arbitrary-"]},{"entry":[{},"depth nested subexpressions in spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"cell formulas."]},{"entry":["GetTok","Method that isolates tokens within sub"]},{"entry":[{},"expressions of cell formulas. ParseFunc"]},{"entry":[{},"Method that parses and generates"]},{"entry":[{},"representative source code for built-in and"]},{"entry":[{},"user-defined spreadsheet functions."]},{"entry":["ParseArgs","Method that parses and generates"]},{"entry":[{},"representative source code for arguments"]},{"entry":[{},"within built-in and user-defined spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"functions."]},{"entry":["ParseArgList","Method that parses and generates"]},{"entry":[{},"representative source code for arguments"]},{"entry":[{},"within built-in and user-defined spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},"functions where said spreadsheet function"]},{"entry":[{},"accepts a variable-length list of arguments."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In a preferred embodiment, the data structures of the Calculation Engine comprise the following object oriented software classes: IKDJEngine, KDJEngine, KDJObject, KDJWorkbook, \u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 book, KDJWorksheet, \u2018MyWorksheet\u2019 sheet, KDJCell, KDJRange, KDJValue, and KDJExpressionParser, KDJCalcException, KDJFunctionLibrary, and KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary.","KDJEngine is a software Data Structure and functions that together represent aspects of a Calculation Engine. KDJEngine implements a public application programming interface (API) that make features of the invention available to calling applications. The methods are directed at loading, getting, and setting values, among other operations. In a preferred embodiment, KDJEngine is an object-oriented software class. A singleton instance of","KDJEngine is instantiated at runtime. Note that the list of methods exposed of KDJEngine is exemplary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Field"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment, KDJEngine has"]},{"entry":[{},{},"no fields."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"getCalcEngine","A method which takes in an identifier of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the generated source code and returns an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of the Calculation Engine to work"]},{"entry":[{},{},"with"]},{"entry":[{},"forceRecalc","A method which forces the Calculation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Engine to mark the KDJWorkbook dirty so"]},{"entry":[{},{},"that all instantiations representing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cells with formulas are"]},{"entry":[{},{},"recalculated."]},{"entry":[{},"getActiveSheet","A method which returns an identifier of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"active instance of KDJWorksheet (defined"]},{"entry":[{},{},"below)."]},{"entry":[{},"SetActiveSheet","A method which activates an instance of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getSheetName","A method which takes in a numeric"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifier and returns the name of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getSheetNumber","A method which takes in the name of a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented worksheet and returns a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"numeric identifier of the represented active"]},{"entry":[{},{},"worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getCellText","A method that takes in a row and column to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"return the text interpretation of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented cell's value on the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"active worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"setCellText","A method that takes in a row identifier,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"column identifier, and text value and sets"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the represented cell's value on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented active worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getCellNumber","A method that takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers to return the numeric (double)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"interpretation of the corresponding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented cell's value on the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"active sheet."]},{"entry":[{},"setCellNumber","A method that takes in a row identifier, a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"column identifier, and a numeric (double)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value and sets the represented cell's value"]},{"entry":[{},{},"on the represented active worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getCellLogical","A method that takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers to return the Boolean (double)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"interpretation of the corresponding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented cell's value on the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"setCellLogical","A method that takes in a row identifier, a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"column identifier, and a Boolean value and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"sets the represented cell's value on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented active worksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"getRangeFromName","A method that takes in a name identifier"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and returns a KDJRange instance that"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represents the cell or cells associated with"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the name."]},{"entry":[{},"getInputCells","A method which returns a collection of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell instances which are used for input"]},{"entry":[{},{},"operations only. These are indexed by A1"]},{"entry":[{},{},"notation."]},{"entry":[{},"getOutputCells","A method which returns a collection of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell instances which are used for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"output operations only. These are indexed"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by A1 notation."]},{"entry":[{},"getPersistentCells","A method which returns a collection of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell instances which are marked as"]},{"entry":[{},{},"persistent. These are indexed by A1"]},{"entry":[{},{},"notation."]},{"entry":[{},"getSheetCount","A method which returns the number of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented worksheets in the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"workbook."]},{"entry":[{},"clearCell","A method that takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers and clears the value of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented cell."]},{"entry":[{},"clearRange","A method which takes in a range identifier"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and clears the values in the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"cells."]},{"entry":[{},"hasFormula","A method which takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers and returns an indicator of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"whether the represented cell contains a cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"formula."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In a preferred embodiment, KDJObject is an object-oriented software class that has no member data fields or methods, but acts as the root-most class in an inheritance hierarchy. KDJValue, KDJRange, and KDJCell all inherit from KDJObject. Instances of KDJObject are not instantiated directly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment, KDJObject has"]},{"entry":[{},{},"no member fields."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment, KDJObject has"]},{"entry":[{},{},"no member methods."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In background art spreadsheet applications and components, the global data aspects of a body of spreadsheet data are commonly referred to as a \u2018workbook\u2019 or a \u2018book\u2019. In the present invention, KDJWorkbook is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent the global, general data and behavior aspects of a body of spreadsheet data at runtime. In a preferred embodiment, KDJWorkbook is an object-oriented software class from which classes representative of specific spreadsheet workbooks are derived. KDJWorkbook inherits from KDJEngine. KDJWorkbook is not instantiated at runtime.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Sheets","A collection of references to the contained"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorksheet instances."]},{"entry":[{},"ActiveSheet","A reference to the active KDJWorksheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance."]},{"entry":[{},"Names","A collection of data structures representing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"named spreadsheet cells and ranges of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cells."]},{"entry":[{},"dirtyCount","A numeric counter that keeps track of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of KDJWorkbook's state. Each"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell object has a corresponding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dirtyCount. If the count on the KDJCell is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"not equal to the dirtyCount on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorkbook, then the formula attached"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to the KDJCell must be recalculated. The"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dirtyCount is incremented every time a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell value is set through KDJEngine."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"addNamedCell","A method which takes in a name and a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell reference and makes an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"association on the KDJWorkbook that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"name refers to the KDJCell instance."]},{"entry":[{},"addNamedRange","A method which takes in a name and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange reference and makes an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"association on the book that the name refers"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to the KDJRange."]},{"entry":[{},"addSheet","A method that takes in a KDJWorksheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reference, a position, and a name and adds"]},{"entry":[{},{},"a KDJWorksheet reference to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorkbook."]},{"entry":[{},"setRecalc","A method which increments the dirtyCount"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to indicate that KDJCell instances"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representing spreadsheet cells with"]},{"entry":[{},{},"formulas need to be recalculated."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"\u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 book is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent global data and behavior aspects of a specific body of spreadsheet data at runtime in the present invention. In a preferred embodiment, \u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 book is an object-oriented software class that is derived from KDJWorkbook. The source code of this class is generated by the Parser and Code Generator to represent the global data and behavior aspects of a specific body of spreadsheet data. In a preferred embodiment, \u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 is derived from the name of a spreadsheet workbook, so if the spreadsheet workbooks name is \u2018Financials\u2019 then the name of the generated class is \u2018Financialsbook\u2019. A singleton instance of \u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 book is instantiated at runtime.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["\u2018myWorksheet1\u2019sheet","An instantiation of the generated source"]},{"entry":[{},"code containing the values and formulas in"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018myWorksheetN\u2019sheet myWorksheet1."]},{"entry":["Method",{}]},{"entry":["<<Constructor>>","Sets the default active KDJWorksheet"]},{"entry":[{},"instance and adds all of the named KDJCell"]},{"entry":[{},"instances and KDJRange instances"]},{"entry":[{},"KDJWorkbook.Names."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"KDJWorksheet is a software Data Structure that represents the aspects of a single spreadsheet sheet within a body of spreadsheet data. In background art spreadsheet applications and components, these are commonly referred to as \u2018worksheet\u2019 or \u2018sheet\u2019. In the present invention, KDJWorksheet is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent the general data and behavior aspects of a of a single spreadsheet sheet at runtime. In a preferred embodiment, KDJWorksheet is an object-oriented software class from which classes representative of specific spreadsheet sheets are derived. KDJWorksheet is not instantiated at runtime.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"sheetName","The name of the spreadsheet sheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented by the KDSheet instance."]},{"entry":[{},"sheetIndex","The one-based index of the spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"sheet represented by the KDSheet instance."]},{"entry":[{},"columns","A collection of data structures representing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the columns of the spreadsheet. Each"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representative column comprises a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"collection of data structures that represent"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the rows in the column data."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"addCellReference","A method which takes in a reference to an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of KDJCell and row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers to add the reference to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorksheet.columns collection."]},{"entry":[{},"getCell","A method which takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers and returns a reference to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell instance at that location."]},{"entry":[{},"getRange","A method which takes in top left row, top"]},{"entry":[{},{},"left column, bottom right row, bottom right"]},{"entry":[{},{},"column identifiers and returns a reference"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to the KDJRange instance at that location."]},{"entry":[{},"getValue","A method which takes in a native-type"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value such as a double, Boolean, or String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and returns a KDJValue instance initialized"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to the input value."]},{"entry":[{},"getCellValue","A method which takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers to return the KDJValue instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representing the value of the referenced"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell instance."]},{"entry":[{},"rowColToA1","A method that takes in row and column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identifiers and returns a String representing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the row and column in A1 notation. For"]},{"entry":[{},{},"example, the call rowColToA1(1, 1) would"]},{"entry":[{},{},"return the string \u201cA1\u201d."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"\u2018MyWorkbook\u2019 book is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent data and behavior aspects of a specific spreadsheet sheet at runtime in the present invention. In a preferred embodiment, \u2018MyWorksheet\u2019 sheet is an object-oriented software class that is derived from KDJWorksheet. The source code of this class is generated by the Parser and Code Generator to represent the data and behavior aspects of a specific spreadsheet sheet. In a preferred embodiment, \u2018MyWorksheet\u2019 is derived from the name of a spreadsheet sheet, so if the spreadsheet sheet is named \u2018Revenue\u2019 then the name of the generated class would be \u2018Revenuesheet.\u2019 An instance of \u2018My Worksheet\u2019 sheet is instantiated at runtime for each spreadsheet sheet in the spreadsheet workbook.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018MyWorksheet\u2019book","A reference to the instance of KDJBook"]},{"entry":[{},{},"that represents the global aspects of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"body of spreadsheet data."]},{"entry":[{},"A1","A reference to the KDJCell instance at row,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"column location 1, 1 . . . with the specified"]},{"entry":[{},{},"initial value. For example, if the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented IVN spreadsheet sheet contains"]},{"entry":[{},{},"a cell B3 that contains a literal value rather"]},{"entry":[{},{},"than a cell formula, then the representative"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2018MyWorksheet\u2019sheet class will have a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"member \u2018B3\u2019 of type KDJCell."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<Constructor>>","Creates the parent-child relationship"]},{"entry":[{},{},"between the KDJWorkbook and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJWorksheet."]},{"entry":[{},"B1e","A method which representing the formula"]},{"entry":[{},{},"contained in the cell and returns a resultant"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Value instance. For example, if the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"represented IUNe spreadsheet sheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"contains a cell B4 that contains a cell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"formula rather than a literal value, then the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representative \u2018MyWorksheet\u2019sheet class"]},{"entry":[{},{},"will have a member method \u2018B4e\u2019 that"]},{"entry":[{},{},"returns an instance of KDJValue."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJCell is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent data and behavior aspects of a spreadsheet cell at runtime in the present invention. In a preferred embodiment, KDJCell is an object-oriented software class. Source code declaring a static instance of this class is generated by the present invention to represent the data aspects of each spreadsheet cell that contains a literal value rather than a cell formula. Instances of KDJCell are instantiated at runtime by the present invention to represent data and behavior aspects of each spreadsheet cell that contains a cell formula rather than a literal value.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Sheet","A reference to the instance of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2018MyWorksheet\u2019sheet that represents the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"aspects of the spreadsheet sheet which"]},{"entry":[{},{},"contains the spreadsheet cell represented by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the current instance of KDJCell."]},{"entry":[{},"Row","Read-only property containing the row of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the represented spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":[{},"Col","Read-only property containing the column"]},{"entry":[{},{},"of the represented spreadsheet cell."]},{"entry":[{},"value","A reference to a KDJValue object that"]},{"entry":[{},{},"stores the text, numeric, Boolean, or error"]},{"entry":[{},{},"values for a cell."]},{"entry":[{},"persistent","An indicator of whether the current"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of KDCell should be marked as"]},{"entry":[{},{},"persistable."]},{"entry":[{},"hasFormula","An indicator of whether or not the cell has"]},{"entry":[{},{},"a formula associated with it."]},{"entry":[{},"dirtyCount","A numeric counter that keeps track of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"cell's state. If the count on the cell is not"]},{"entry":[{},{},"equal to the dirtyCount on the workbook,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"then the formula attached to the cell must"]},{"entry":[{},{},"be recalculated."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"getValue","A method which returns the KDJValue of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the KDJCell instance. If the KDJCell's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dirtyCount is not equal to the dirtyCount on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the KDJWorkbook, then the formula is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"recalculated on request, otherwise, a cached"]},{"entry":[{},{},"result is returned."]},{"entry":[{},"setValue","Sets the value reference of the KDJCell"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance."]},{"entry":[{},"clear","A method which clears the KDJCell's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value."]},{"entry":[{},"getText","A method which returns the text"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representation of the KDJCell's KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"setText","A method that takes in a string and sets the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCell's KDJValue to the input string."]},{"entry":[{},"getNumber","A method which returns the numeric"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(double) representation of the KDJCell's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"setNumber","A method that takes in a number (double)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and sets the KDJCell's KDJValue to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"input number."]},{"entry":[{},"getLogical","A method which returns the Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representation of the KDJCell's KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"setLogical","A method that takes in a Boolean and sets"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the KDJCell's KDJValue to the input"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Boolean value."]},{"entry":[{},"getError","A method which returns the Error"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representation of the KDJCell's KDJValue."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJRange is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent data and behavior aspects of a range of spreadsheet cells within a spreadsheet sheet. In a preferred embodiment, KDJRange is an object-oriented software class. Instances of KDJRange are instantiated at runtime.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"topLeftRow","An identifier of the location of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange instance's top left row."]},{"entry":[{},"topLeftColumn","An identifier of the location of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange instance's top left column."]},{"entry":[{},"bottomRightRow","An identifier of the location of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange instance's bottom right row."]},{"entry":[{},"bottomRightColumn","An identifier of the location of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange instance's bottom right column."]},{"entry":[{},"type","An indicator of whether the represented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet name refers to a single"]},{"entry":[{},{},"spreadsheet cell or a range of spreadsheet"]},{"entry":[{},{},"cells. One of cellType, verticalVectorType,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"horizontalVectorType, matrixType."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"equals","A method which takes in two references to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJRange instances and compares them"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for equality."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJValue is a software Data Structure and functions defined in the target software development language that together represent data and behavior aspects of a KDJCell's value evaluation, whether the cell contains a literal value or a cell formula. KDJValue is also used to represent the results of built-in spreadsheet functions and user-defined functions. In a preferred embodiment, KDJValue is an object-oriented software class. Instances of KDJValue are instantiated at runtime.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00020","num":"00020"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"number","A number (double) which stores the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"numeric representation of the KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"text","A string which stores the text"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representation of the KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"bool","A Boolean which stores the Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},{},"representation of the KDJValue."]},{"entry":[{},"error","A KDJException which stores an Errors"]},{"entry":[{},{},"associated with the KDJValue if there is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"one."]},{"entry":[{},"lastSet","An indicator that represents what type of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value that was last set. One of noneType,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"numberType, textType, booleanType, or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"errorType."]},{"entry":[{},"LogicalValue","An indicator which stores whether the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJValue represents a Boolean value or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"not."]},{"entry":[{},"reference","An indicator which stores whether the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJValue is a reference to a KDJCell's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJValue or not."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"compareTo","A method that takes in a KDJValue and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"performs a comparison of the current"]},{"entry":[{},{},"instance of the KDJValue with another. It"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attempts to perform a numeric comparison"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and returns \u22121 if the parameter is less than"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the value, 0 is if it is equal to, or 1 if it is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"greater than. If it cannot perform a numeric"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or Boolean comparison, it performs a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"lexicographical comparison of the strings"]},{"entry":[{},{},"based on Unicode character values."]},{"entry":[{},"clone","A method which makes a duplicate"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJValue object in a new memory space."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJCalcException is a software Data Structure and functions that represent aspects of an Exception. In a preferred embodiment, KDJCalcException is an object-oriented software class. Instances of KDJCalcException are instantiated at runtime when an error occurs as the result of any unexpected conditions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00021","num":"00021"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Field"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"type","An indicator that tells which type of error"]},{"entry":[{},{},"has occurred. The error types are"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NULL_ERR, DIV0_ERR, VALUE_ERR,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"REF_ERR, NAME_ERR, and NA_ERR."]},{"entry":[{},"Method","In a preferred embodiment,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJCalcException has no member"]},{"entry":[{},{},"methods."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJExpressionParser is a software Data Structure and functions that represent the aspects of an expression parser for use by run-time implementations of built-in spreadsheet functions and user-defined functions that can take quoted regular expressions as arguments. In a preferred embodiment, KDJExpressionParser is an object-oriented software class. Instance of KDJExpressionParser are instantiated at runtime during evaluation of functions such as \u2018SUMIF\u2019 and \u2018COUNTIF\u2019, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00022","num":"00022"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"compVal","A KDJValue instance which stores the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value that is going to be compared."]},{"entry":[{},"comparison","The type of comparison being done,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"EQUAL, NOT_EQUAL, LESS_THAN,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"LESS_OR_EQUAL, GREATER_THAN,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or GREATER_OR_EQUAL."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<Constructor>>","A constructor that takes in a KDJValue"]},{"entry":[{},{},"object containing a string which has a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"comparison operator and a value for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"example \u201c>=4\u201d. GREATER_OR_EQUAL"]},{"entry":[{},{},"becomes the comparison and compVal is 4."]},{"entry":[{},"compareTo","Compares the KDJValue instance to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"compVal based on the comparison criteria"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and returns true if the criteria are met."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"KDJFunctionLibrary is a set of functions defined in the target software development language that represent behavior aspects necessary for execution of built-in spreadsheet functions. In a preferred embodiment, KDJFunctionLibrary is an object-oriented software class. All member functions of KDJFunctionLibrary are static and require no instantiation. In a preferred embodiment, KDJFunctionLibrary can be generated and only include implementations of the built-in spreadsheet functions actually used in the specific workbook for which code is generated. This serves to optimize the generated code for size. The entire library of built-in spreadsheet functions can be used if the Calculation Engine is to be shared by modules representing several workbooks, where the used functions may not be known at code-generation-time.","Note: The following list of built-in spreadsheet functions and descriptions contemplated by the invention is in spreadsheet syntax format as defined within the Help System of Microsoft\u00ae Excel 2000, a background art spreadsheet application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00023","num":"00023"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Description","Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment, KDJFunctions has no"]},{"entry":[{},"fields."]},{"entry":"Method"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Operators:"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["+","Addition operator, returns the result of adding a"]},{"entry":[{},"number to a number."]},{"entry":["\u2212","Subtraction operator, returns the result of a number"]},{"entry":[{},"subtracted from another number."]},{"entry":["*","Multiplication operator, returns the result of"]},{"entry":[{},"multiplying a number by a number."]},{"entry":["\/","Division operator, returns the result of a number"]},{"entry":[{},"divided by a number."]},{"entry":["#","Raise-to-the-power operator, returns the result of a"]},{"entry":[{},"number raised to a power"]},{"entry":["%","Percent operator, returns the percent of a number"]},{"entry":[{},"(the number multiplied by 0.01)."]},{"entry":["=","Equivalence comparator compares two values and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns TRUE if they are exactly the same, FALSE"]},{"entry":[{},"otherwise"]},{"entry":[">","Greater-than comparator, compares two values and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns TRUE if value 1 is greater than value 2,"]},{"entry":[{},"FALSE otherwise"]},{"entry":["<","Less-than comparator, compares two values and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns TRUE if value 1 is less than value 2, FALSE"]},{"entry":[{},"otherwise"]},{"entry":[">=","Greater-than-or-equal-to comparator, compares two"]},{"entry":[{},"values and returns TRUE if value 1 is greater than"]},{"entry":[{},"or equal to value 2, FALSE otherwise"]},{"entry":["<=","Less-than-or-equal-to comparator, compares two"]},{"entry":[{},"values and returns TRUE if value 1 is less than or"]},{"entry":[{},"equal to value 2, FALSE otherwise"]},{"entry":["<>","Not-equal comparator, compares two values and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns FALSE if the values are equal, TRUE"]},{"entry":[{},"otherwise"]},{"entry":["&","String join operator, joins two text strings into one"]},{"entry":[{},"text string and returns this string"]},{"entry":[{},"Functions:"]},{"entry":["ABS","Returns the absolute value of a number"]},{"entry":["ACOS","Returns the arccosine of a number"]},{"entry":["ACOSH","Returns the inverse hyperbolic cosine of a number"]},{"entry":["ADDRESS","Creates a cell address as text, given the specified"]},{"entry":[{},"row and column numbers"]},{"entry":["AND","Returns TRUE if all arguments are true; otherwise,"]},{"entry":[{},"returns FALSE if one argument is false."]},{"entry":["AREAS","Returns the number of areas in a reference"]},{"entry":["ASIN","Returns the arcsine of a number"]},{"entry":["ASINH","Returns the inverse hyperbolic sine of a number"]},{"entry":["ATAN","Returns the arctangent of a number"]},{"entry":["ATAN2","Returns the arctangent from x- and y-coordinates"]},{"entry":["ATANH","Returns the inverse hyperbolic tangent of a number"]},{"entry":["AVEDEV","Returns the average of the absolute deviations of the"]},{"entry":[{},"list of arguments"]},{"entry":["AVERAGE","The average of the values in a list."]},{"entry":["AVERAGEA","Mean with text treated as 0 except TRUE = 1"]},{"entry":["BETADIST","Returns the cumulative beta probability density"]},{"entry":[{},"function according to the specified parameters"]},{"entry":["BETAINV","Returns the inverse of the cumulative beta"]},{"entry":[{},"probability density function"]},{"entry":["BINOMDIST","Returns the individual term binomial distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"probability"]},{"entry":["CALL","Calls a procedure in a dynamic link library or code"]},{"entry":[{},"resource."]},{"entry":["CEILING","Rounds a number to the nearest integer or to the"]},{"entry":[{},"nearest multiple of significance"]},{"entry":["CELL","Returns information about the formatting, location,"]},{"entry":[{},"or contents of the upper-left cell in a reference"]},{"entry":["CHAR","Returns the character specified by a number"]},{"entry":["CHIDIST","Returns the one-tailed probability of the chi-squared"]},{"entry":[{},"distribution"]},{"entry":["CHIINV","Returns the inverse of the one-tailed probability"]},{"entry":[{},"of the chi-squared distribution"]},{"entry":["CHITEST","Returns the value from the chi-squared (.gamma.2)"]},{"entry":[{},"distribution for the statistic and the appropriate"]},{"entry":[{},"degrees of freedom"]},{"entry":["CHOOSE","Return the value specified by index number from the"]},{"entry":[{},"list of value arguments"]},{"entry":["CLEAN","Removes all nonprintable characters from text"]},{"entry":["CODE","Returns a numeric code, which corresponds to the"]},{"entry":[{},"character set used by your computer, for the first"]},{"entry":[{},"character in a text string"]},{"entry":["COLUMN","Returns the column number of the given reference"]},{"entry":["COLUMNS","Returns the number of columns in an array or"]},{"entry":[{},"reference"]},{"entry":["COMBIN","Returns the number of combinations for a given"]},{"entry":[{},"number of objects"]},{"entry":["CONCATENATE","Joins several text strings into one text string and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns this string"]},{"entry":["CONFIDENCE","Returns the confidence interval for a population"]},{"entry":[{},"mean"]},{"entry":["CORREL","Returns the correlation coefficient of the array1 and"]},{"entry":[{},"array2 cell ranges"]},{"entry":["COS","Returns the cosine of a number"]},{"entry":["COSH","Returns the hyperbolic cosine of a number"]},{"entry":["COUNT","The number of items in a list. This is the default"]},{"entry":[{},"function for nonnumeric data."]},{"entry":["COUNTA","Counts the number of cells that are not empty"]},{"entry":[{},"and the values within the list of arguments"]},{"entry":["COUNTBLANK","Counts empty cells in a specified range of cells"]},{"entry":["COUNTIF","Counts the number of nonblank cells within a range"]},{"entry":[{},"that meet the given criteria"]},{"entry":["COVAR","Returns covariance, the average of the products of"]},{"entry":[{},"deviations for each data point pair in two data sets"]},{"entry":["CRITBINOM","Returns the smallest value for which the cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"binomial distribution is greater than or equal to a"]},{"entry":[{},"criterion value"]},{"entry":["DATE","Returns the serial number that represents a particular"]},{"entry":[{},"date"]},{"entry":["DATEVALUE","Returns the serial number of the date represented by"]},{"entry":[{},"the text argument"]},{"entry":["DAVERAGE","Returns the average of selected database entries"]},{"entry":["DAY","Returns the day of a date, represented by a serial"]},{"entry":[{},"number"]},{"entry":["DAYS360","Returns the number of days between two dates"]},{"entry":[{},"based on a 360-day year (twelve 30-day months)"]},{"entry":["DB","Returns the depreciation of an asset for a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"period using the fixed-declining balance method."]},{"entry":["DCOUNT","Counts the cells that contain numbers in a database"]},{"entry":["DCOUNTA","Counts nonblank cells in a database"]},{"entry":["DDB","Returns the depreciation of an asset for a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"period using the double-declining balance method or"]},{"entry":[{},"some other method you specify."]},{"entry":["DEGREES","Converts radians into degrees."]},{"entry":["DEVSQ","Returns the sum of squares of deviations of the"]},{"entry":[{},"arguments from their sample mean"]},{"entry":["DGET","Extracts from a database a single record that"]},{"entry":[{},"matches the specified criteria"]},{"entry":["DMAX","Returns the maximum value from selected database"]},{"entry":[{},"entries"]},{"entry":["DMIN","Returns the minimum value from selected database"]},{"entry":[{},"entries"]},{"entry":["DOLLAR","Converts a number to text using currency format,"]},{"entry":[{},"with the decimals rounded to the specified place"]},{"entry":["DPRODUCT","Multiplies the values in a particular field of records"]},{"entry":[{},"that match the criteria in a database"]},{"entry":["DSTDEV","Estimates the standard deviation based on a"]},{"entry":[{},"sample of selected database entries"]},{"entry":["DSTDEVP","Calculates the standard deviation based on the entire"]},{"entry":[{},"population of selected database entries"]},{"entry":["DSUM","Adds the numbers in the field column of records in"]},{"entry":[{},"the database that match the criteria"]},{"entry":["DVAR","Estimates variance based on a sample from selected"]},{"entry":[{},"database entries"]},{"entry":["DVARP","Calculates variance based on the entire population of"]},{"entry":[{},"selected database entries"]},{"entry":["ERRORTYPE","Returns a number corresponding to one of the error"]},{"entry":[{},"values in KDJCalcException or returns the #N\/A"]},{"entry":[{},"error if no error exists for the argument value"]},{"entry":["EVEN","Rounds a number up to the nearest even integer"]},{"entry":["EXACT","Compares two text strings and returns TRUE if they"]},{"entry":[{},"are exactly the same, FALSE otherwise EXP"]},{"entry":[{},"Returns e raised to the power of a given number"]},{"entry":["EXPONDIST","Returns the exponential distribution of a function"]},{"entry":["FACT","Returns the factorial of a number"]},{"entry":["FACTDOUBLE","Returns the double factorial of a number FALSE"]},{"entry":[{},"Returns the logical value FALSE"]},{"entry":["FDIST","Returns the F probability distribution"]},{"entry":["FINV","Returns the inverse of the F probability distribution"]},{"entry":["FISHER","Returns the Fisher transformation at x"]},{"entry":["FISHERINV","Returns the inverse of the Fisher transformation"]},{"entry":["FIND","finds one text string (the first argument) within"]},{"entry":[{},"another text string (the second argument), and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns the number of the starting position of the"]},{"entry":[{},"first argument, from the first character of the"]},{"entry":[{},"second argument"]},{"entry":["FIXED","Rounds a number to the specified number of"]},{"entry":[{},"decimals, formats the number in decimal format"]},{"entry":[{},"either using or not using a period and commas, and"]},{"entry":[{},"returns the result as text"]},{"entry":["FLOOR","Rounds a number down, towards zero, to the nearest"]},{"entry":[{},"multiple of significance"]},{"entry":["FORECAST","Calculates, or predicts, a future value by using"]},{"entry":[{},"existing values"]},{"entry":["FREQUENCY","Calculates how often values occur within a range of"]},{"entry":[{},"values, and then returns a vertical array of numbers"]},{"entry":["FTEST","Returns the result of an F-test on the two array"]},{"entry":[{},"arguments FV Returns the future value of an"]},{"entry":[{},"investment based on periodic, constant payments"]},{"entry":[{},"and a constant interest rate"]},{"entry":["GAMMADIST","Returns the gamma distribution"]},{"entry":["GAMMAINV","Returns the inverse of the gamma cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"distribution"]},{"entry":["GAMMALN","Returns the natural logarithm of the gamma"]},{"entry":[{},"function, .GAMMA.(x), on argument x"]},{"entry":["GCD","Returns the greatest common divisor"]},{"entry":["GEOMEAN","Returns the geometric mean of an array or range of"]},{"entry":[{},"positive data"]},{"entry":["GETPIVOTDATA","Returns data stored in a PivotTable"]},{"entry":["GROWTH","Calculates predicted exponential growth by using"]},{"entry":[{},"existing data"]},{"entry":["HARMEAN","Returns the harmonic mean of a data set"]},{"entry":["HLOOKUP","Searches for the first argument value in the top row"]},{"entry":[{},"of the specified table or array of values, and then"]},{"entry":[{},"returns a value in the same column from a row you"]},{"entry":[{},"specify in the table or array"]},{"entry":["HOUR","Returns the hour, in integer format ranging from"]},{"entry":[{},"0 to 23, of a time value"]},{"entry":["HYPGEOMDIST","Returns the probability of a given number of sample"]},{"entry":[{},"successes, given the sample size, population"]},{"entry":[{},"successes, and population size"]},{"entry":["IF","Returns 1st value if True, otherwise returns logical"]},{"entry":[{},"value FALSE"]},{"entry":["IF","Returns 1st value if True, otherwise returns 2nd"]},{"entry":[{},"Value"]},{"entry":["INDEX","Returns the value of a specified cell or array of cells"]},{"entry":[{},"within array"]},{"entry":["INDEX","Returns the value of a specified cell or array of cells"]},{"entry":[{},"within array INDEX Returns a reference to a"]},{"entry":[{},"specified cell or cells within reference"]},{"entry":["INDIRECT","Returns the reference specified by the argument"]},{"entry":[{},"text string"]},{"entry":["INFO","Returns information about the formatting, location,"]},{"entry":[{},"or contents of the upper-left cell in a reference"]},{"entry":["INT","Rounds a number down to the nearest integer"]},{"entry":["INTERCEPT","Calculates the point at which a line will intersect the"]},{"entry":[{},"y-axis by using existing x-values and y-values"]},{"entry":["IPMT","Returns the interest payment for a given period for"]},{"entry":[{},"an investment based on periodic, constant"]},{"entry":[{},"payments and a constant interest rate"]},{"entry":["IRR","Returns the internal rate of return for a series of cash"]},{"entry":[{},"flows represented by the numbers in the values"]},{"entry":[{},"of the argument"]},{"entry":["ISBLANK","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to an empty cell; otherwise it returns"]},{"entry":[{},"FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISERR","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to any error value except #N\/A;"]},{"entry":[{},"otherwise it returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISERROR","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to any error value; otherwise it returns"]},{"entry":[{},"FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISLOGICAL","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to a logical value; otherwise it"]},{"entry":[{},"returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISNA","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to the #N\/A error value; otherwise it"]},{"entry":[{},"returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISNONTEXT","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to any item that is not text; otherwise it"]},{"entry":[{},"returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISNUMBER","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to a number; otherwise it returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISPMT","Calculates the interest paid during a specific"]},{"entry":[{},"period of an investment"]},{"entry":["ISREF","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to a reference; otherwise it returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["ISTEXT","Returns the logical value TRUE if the argument is a"]},{"entry":[{},"reference to text; otherwise it returns FALSE"]},{"entry":["KURT","Returns kurtosis of a data set."]},{"entry":["LARGE","Returns the k-th largest value in a data set, where"]},{"entry":[{},"the data set is specified by the first argument and"]},{"entry":[{},"the value of k by the second argument"]},{"entry":["LCM","Returns the least common multiple"]},{"entry":["LEFT","Returns the first character or characters in the"]},{"entry":[{},"argument text string, based on the number of"]},{"entry":[{},"characters you specify"]},{"entry":["LEN","Returns the number of characters in the argument"]},{"entry":[{},"text string"]},{"entry":["LINEST","Calculates the statistics for a line by using the \u201cleast"]},{"entry":[{},"squares\u201d method to calculate a straight line that best"]},{"entry":[{},"fits your data, and returns an array that describes the"]},{"entry":[{},"line"]},{"entry":["LN","Returns the natural logarithm of a number."]},{"entry":["LOG","Returns the logarithm of a number to the base 10"]},{"entry":["LOG","Returns the logarithm of a number to a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"base"]},{"entry":["LOG10","Returns the base-10 logarithm of a number"]},{"entry":["LOGEST","Calculates an exponential curve that fits your data"]},{"entry":[{},"and returns an array of values that describes the"]},{"entry":[{},"curve"]},{"entry":["LOGINV","Returns the inverse of the lognormal cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"distribution function of x, where ln(x) is normally"]},{"entry":[{},"distributed with parameters mean and standard_dev"]},{"entry":["LOGNORMDIST","Returns the cumulative lognormal distribution of x,"]},{"entry":[{},"where ln(x) is normally distributed with parameters"]},{"entry":[{},"mean and standard_dev"]},{"entry":["LOOKUP","Returns value from one-row, one-col range or an"]},{"entry":[{},"array."]},{"entry":["LOOKUP","Looks in a one-row or one-column range (known as"]},{"entry":[{},"a vector) for a value and returns a value from the"]},{"entry":[{},"same position in a second one-row or"]},{"entry":[{},"one-column range"]},{"entry":["LOWER","Converts all uppercase letters in the argument text"]},{"entry":[{},"string to lowercase"]},{"entry":["MATCH","Returns the relative position of an item in an array"]},{"entry":[{},"that matches a specified value in a specified order"]},{"entry":["MAX","Returns the largest value in a set of values. Ignores"]},{"entry":[{},"logical values and text."]},{"entry":["MAXA","Returns the largest value in a set of values. Does"]},{"entry":[{},"not ignore logical values and text."]},{"entry":["MDETERM","Returns the matrix determinant of an array"]},{"entry":["MEDIAN","Returns the median of the given numbers"]},{"entry":["MID","Returns a specific number of characters from the"]},{"entry":[{},"argument text string, starting at the specified"]},{"entry":[{},"position, based on the specified number of"]},{"entry":[{},"characters"]},{"entry":["MIN","Returns the smallest value in a set of values. Ignores"]},{"entry":[{},"logical values and text."]},{"entry":["MINA","Returns the smallest value in a set of values. Does"]},{"entry":[{},"not ignore logical values and text."]},{"entry":["MINUTE","Returns the minutes, in integer format ranging"]},{"entry":[{},"from 0 to 59, of a time value"]},{"entry":["MINVERSE","Returns the matrix inverse of an array"]},{"entry":["MIRR","Returns the modified internal rate of return for a"]},{"entry":[{},"series of periodic cash flows"]},{"entry":["MMULT","Returns the matrix product of two arrays"]},{"entry":["MOD","Returns the remainder from division"]},{"entry":["MODE","Returns the most frequently occurring value in an"]},{"entry":[{},"array or range of data"]},{"entry":["MONTH","Returns the month, in integer format ranging from 0"]},{"entry":[{},"to 12, of a date represented by a serial number"]},{"entry":["MROUND","Returns a number rounded to the desired multiple"]},{"entry":["MULTINOMIAL","Returns the multinomial of a set of numbers N"]},{"entry":[{},"Returns a value converted to a number NA Returns"]},{"entry":[{},"the error value #N\/A"]},{"entry":["NEGBINOMDIST","Returns the probability that there will be number_f"]},{"entry":[{},"failures before the number_s-th success, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"constant probability of a success is probability_s"]},{"entry":["NORMDIST","Returns the normal cumulative distribution of the"]},{"entry":[{},"argument value for the specified mean and standard"]},{"entry":[{},"deviation"]},{"entry":["NORMINV","Returns the inverse of the normal cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"distribution for the specified mean and standard"]},{"entry":[{},"deviation"]},{"entry":["NORMSDIST","Returns the standard normal cumulative distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"function for a value"]},{"entry":["NORMSINV","Returns the inverse of the standard normal"]},{"entry":[{},"cumulative distribution NOT Reverses the value of"]},{"entry":[{},"its argument NOW Returns the serial number of"]},{"entry":[{},"the current date and time"]},{"entry":["NPER","Returns the number of periods for an investment"]},{"entry":[{},"based on periodic, constant payments and a constant"]},{"entry":[{},"interest rate"]},{"entry":["NPV","Calculates the net present value of an investment by"]},{"entry":[{},"using a discount rate and a series of future payments"]},{"entry":[{},"(negative values) and income (positive values)"]},{"entry":["ODD","Rounds a number up to the nearest odd integer"]},{"entry":["OFFSET","Returns a reference to a range that is a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"number of rows and columns from a cell or range of"]},{"entry":[{},"cells"]},{"entry":["OFFSET","Returns a reference to a range that is a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"number of rows and columns from a cell or range of"]},{"entry":[{},"cells and has a specified height"]},{"entry":["OFFSET","Returns a reference to a range that is a specified"]},{"entry":[{},"number of rows and columns from a cell or range of"]},{"entry":[{},"cells and has a specified height and width"]},{"entry":["OR","Returns TRUE if any argument is TRUE; returns"]},{"entry":[{},"FALSE if all arguments are FALSE"]},{"entry":["PEARSON","Returns the Pearson product moment correlation"]},{"entry":[{},"coefficient given two data sets"]},{"entry":["PERCENTILE","Given a data range and a value k, returns the k-th"]},{"entry":[{},"percentile of values in the range"]},{"entry":["PERCENTRANK","Returns the rank of a value in a data set as a"]},{"entry":[{},"percentage of the data set"]},{"entry":["PERMUT","Returns the number of permutations for a given"]},{"entry":[{},"number of objects that can be selected from number"]},{"entry":[{},"objects PI Returns the value of Pi"]},{"entry":["PMT","Calculates the payment for a loan based on constant"]},{"entry":[{},"payments and a constant interest rate"]},{"entry":["POISSON","Returns the Poisson distribution"]},{"entry":["POWER","Returns the result of a number raised to a power"]},{"entry":["PPMT","Returns the payment on the principal for a given"]},{"entry":[{},"period for an investment based on periodic, constant"]},{"entry":[{},"payments and a constant interest rate"]},{"entry":["PROB","Returns the probability that values in a range are"]},{"entry":[{},"between two limits"]},{"entry":["PRODUCT","Multiplies its arguments"]},{"entry":["PROPER","Capitalizes the first letter in the given text string and"]},{"entry":[{},"any other letters in the text that follow any character"]},{"entry":[{},"other than a letter. Converts all other letters to"]},{"entry":[{},"lowercase letters"]},{"entry":["PV","Returns the present value of an investment"]},{"entry":["QUARTILE","Returns the specified quartile of a data set"]},{"entry":["QUOTIENT","Returns the integer portion of a division"]},{"entry":["RADIANS","Converts degrees to radians"]},{"entry":["RAND","Returns a random number between 0 and 1"]},{"entry":["RANDBETWEEN","Returns a random number between the numbers you"]},{"entry":[{},"specify"]},{"entry":["RANK","Returns the rank of a number in a list of numbers"]},{"entry":["RATE","Returns the interest rate per period of an annuity"]},{"entry":["REPLACE","Replaces part of a text string, based on the number"]},{"entry":[{},"of characters you specify, with a different text string"]},{"entry":["REPT","Returns the given text repeated the specified number"]},{"entry":[{},"of times"]},{"entry":["RIGHT","Returns the last character or characters in a text"]},{"entry":[{},"string, based on the number of characters you"]},{"entry":[{},"specify"]},{"entry":["ROMAN","Converts an Arabic numeral to roman, as text"]},{"entry":["ROUND","Rounds a number to a specified number of digits"]},{"entry":["ROUNDDOWN","Rounds a number down, toward zero"]},{"entry":["ROUNDUP","Rounds a number up, away from zero"]},{"entry":["ROW","Returns the row number of a reference"]},{"entry":["ROWS","Returns the number of rows in a reference or array"]},{"entry":["RSQ","Returns the square of the Pearson product moment"]},{"entry":[{},"correlation coefficient through data points in the"]},{"entry":[{},"specified ranges of data points"]},{"entry":["SEARCH","Returns the number of the character at which a"]},{"entry":[{},"specific character or text string is first found,"]},{"entry":[{},"beginning with the specified number"]},{"entry":["SECOND","Returns the seconds of a time value"]},{"entry":["SERIESSUM","Returns the sum of a power series based on the"]},{"entry":[{},"formula"]},{"entry":["SIGN","Returns the sign of a number"]},{"entry":["SIN","Returns the sine of the given angle"]},{"entry":["SINH","Returns the hyperbolic sine of a number"]},{"entry":["SKEW","Returns the skewness of a distribution"]},{"entry":["SLN","Returns the straight-line depreciation of an asset for"]},{"entry":[{},"one period"]},{"entry":["SLOPE","Returns the slope of the linear regression line"]},{"entry":[{},"through data points in the specified ranges of"]},{"entry":[{},"data points"]},{"entry":["SMALL","Given a data set and a value k, returns the k-th"]},{"entry":[{},"smallest value in the data set"]},{"entry":["SQRT","Returns a positive square root SQRTPI Returns the"]},{"entry":[{},"square root of (number * Pi)"]},{"entry":["STANDARDIZE","Returns a normalized value from a distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"characterized by mean and standard deviation"]},{"entry":["STDEV","Estimates standard deviation based on a sample"]},{"entry":["STDEVA","Estimates standard deviation based on a sample, and"]},{"entry":[{},"includes all text and logical values in its calculation"]},{"entry":["STDEVP","Calculates standard deviation based on the entire"]},{"entry":[{},"population given as arguments"]},{"entry":["STDEVPA","Calculates standard deviation based on the entire"]},{"entry":[{},"population given as arguments, including text and"]},{"entry":[{},"logical values"]},{"entry":["STEYX","Given a range of dependent data points(y's) and a"]},{"entry":[{},"range of independent data points(x's), returns the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard error of the predicted y-value for each x in"]},{"entry":[{},"the regression"]},{"entry":["SUBSTITUTE","Substitutes new text for old text in a given text"]},{"entry":[{},"string"]},{"entry":["SUBTOTAL","Returns a subtotal in a list or database"]},{"entry":["SUM","The sum of the values in a list. This is the default"]},{"entry":[{},"function for numeric data."]},{"entry":["SUMIF","Adds the cells specified by a given criteria"]},{"entry":["SUMIF","Adds the cells coinciding with the cells specified by"]},{"entry":[{},"a given criteria"]},{"entry":["SUMPRODUCT","Returns the sum of the products of corresponding"]},{"entry":[{},"array components"]},{"entry":["SUMSQ","Returns the sum of the squares of the arguments"]},{"entry":["SUMX2MY2","Returns the sum of the difference of squares of"]},{"entry":[{},"corresponding values in two arrays"]},{"entry":["SUMX2PY2","Returns the sum of the sum of squares of"]},{"entry":[{},"corresponding values in two arrays"]},{"entry":["SUMXMY2","Returns the sum of squares of differences of"]},{"entry":[{},"corresponding values in two arrays"]},{"entry":["SYD","Returns the sum-of-years' digits depreciation of an"]},{"entry":[{},"asset for a specified period T Returns the text"]},{"entry":[{},"referred to by the given value TAN Returns the"]},{"entry":[{},"tangent of a number"]},{"entry":["TANH","Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a number"]},{"entry":["TDIST","Returns the Percentage Points (probability) for the"]},{"entry":[{},"Student t-distribution where a numeric value (x) is a"]},{"entry":[{},"calculated value of t for which the Percentage Points"]},{"entry":[{},"are to be computed"]},{"entry":["TEXT","Converts a given value to text in a specific number"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TIME","Returns the decimal number for a particular time"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by an hour, minute, and second value"]},{"entry":["TIME VALUE","Returns the decimal number of the time represented"]},{"entry":[{},"by a text string"]},{"entry":["TINV","Returns the t-value of the Student's t-distribution as"]},{"entry":[{},"a function of the probability and the degrees"]},{"entry":[{},"of freedom"]},{"entry":["TODAY","Returns the serial number of the current date"]},{"entry":["TRANSPOSE","Returns a vertical range of cells as a horizontal"]},{"entry":[{},"range, or vice versa"]},{"entry":["TREND","Fits a straight line (using the method of least"]},{"entry":[{},"squares) to the given arrays of y-values and"]},{"entry":[{},"x-values. Returns the y-values along that line"]},{"entry":[{},"for the array of new x values that you specify"]},{"entry":["TRIM","Truncates a number to an integer by removing the"]},{"entry":[{},"fractional part of the number"]},{"entry":["TRIMMEAN","Returns the mean of the interior of a data set"]},{"entry":["TRUE","Returns the logical value TRUE"]},{"entry":["TRUNC","Truncates a number to an integer"]},{"entry":["TTEST","Returns the probability associated with a Student's t-"]},{"entry":[{},"Test"]},{"entry":["TYPE","Returns the type of a value"]},{"entry":["UPPER","Converts the given text to uppercase"]},{"entry":["VALUE","Converts a text string that represents a number into a"]},{"entry":[{},"number. VAR Estimates variance based on a sample"]},{"entry":["VARA Estimates",{}]},{"entry":["variance based",{}]},{"entry":["on a sample, and",{}]},{"entry":["includes all text",{}]},{"entry":["and logical values",{}]},{"entry":["in its calculation",{}]},{"entry":["VARP","Calculates variance based on the entire population"]},{"entry":[{},"given as arguments"]},{"entry":["VARPA","Calculates variance based on the entire population"]},{"entry":[{},"given as arguments, including text and logical"]},{"entry":[{},"values"]},{"entry":["VDB","Returns the depreciation of an asset for any period"]},{"entry":[{},"you specify, including partial periods, using the"]},{"entry":[{},"double-declining balance method or some other"]},{"entry":[{},"method you specify"]},{"entry":["VLOOKUP","Searches for a value in the leftmost column of a"]},{"entry":[{},"table, and then returns a value in the same row"]},{"entry":[{},"from a column you specify in the table"]},{"entry":["VLOOKUP","Searches for a value in the leftmost column of a"]},{"entry":[{},"table, and then returns a value in the same row"]},{"entry":[{},"from a column you specify in the table."]},{"entry":[{},"If range_lookup is"]},{"entry":[{},"FALSE, an exact match will be found. If"]},{"entry":[{},"range_lookup is TRUE, an approximate match"]},{"entry":[{},"will be found. WEEKDAY Returns the day of the"]},{"entry":[{},"week corresponding to a given date"]},{"entry":["WEIBULL","Returns the Weibull distribution YEAR Returns the"]},{"entry":[{},"year corresponding to a given date"]},{"entry":["ZTEST","Returns the two-tailed P-value of a z-test"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Some background art spreadsheet applications and spreadsheet components allow users to define functions that are not built-in. KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary is a set of functions defined in the target software development language that represent behavior aspects necessary for execution of user-defined spreadsheet functions. In a preferred embodiment, KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary is an object-oriented software class. KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary allows unanticipated functions to be made available for use in KDJCell formulas. All member functions of KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary must be defined as static and require no instantiation. In a preferred embodiment, KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary can be generated and only include implementations of the user-defined spreadsheet functions actually used in the specific workbook for which code is generated. This serves to optimize the generated code for size. The entire library of user-defined spreadsheet functions can be used if the Calculation Engine is to be shared by modules representing several workbooks, where the used functions may not be known at code-generation-time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00024","num":"00024"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Description",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<<none>>","In a preferred embodiment,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"KDJUserDefinedFunctionLibrary has no"]},{"entry":[{},{},"fields."]},{"entry":[{},"Method",{}]},{"entry":[{},"DollarToWords","A function for converting a currency"]},{"entry":[{},{},"amount to a word representation for use in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"printing checks. For example, (123.45)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"would return \u2018One Hundred Twenty Three"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Dollars and Forty Five Cents\u2019. . . . A"]},{"entry":[{},{},"multitude of unanticipated user-defined"]},{"entry":[{},{},"functions can be defined and made"]},{"entry":[{},{},"available for use by KDJCell formulas."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11A-11E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
