---
title: Conditional cell placement
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques for conditional cell placement are provided herein. In an embodiment, a conditional boundary is created for a first cell. For example, the conditional boundary enables the first cell to be placed relative to a second cell based on a conditional placement rule. In an embodiment, the first cell is placed in a first manner relative to the second cell based in a first scenario. In a second scenario, different than the first scenario, the first cell is placed in a second manner relative to the second cell. In this manner, conditional cell placement is provided, thus providing flexibility and improved layout efficiency with regard to semiconductor fabrication, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560997&OS=08560997&RS=08560997
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08560997
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120725
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Generally, cells of a semiconductor device are laid out according to a place-and-route boundary (prBoundary). For example, a first cell is abutted against a second cell along prBoundaries for the respective cells. However, a prBoundary is not flexible, and placement of cells is not efficient in some scenarios when cells are placed or abutted according to a prBoundary. For example, such cell placement is associated with a decrease in power, performance, and area (PPA). Moreover, prBoundary cell placement wastes space in some scenarios at least because the first cell is separated from the second cell by decap cells or filler cells.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter, identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Among other things, one or more techniques and systems for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout are provided herein. In an embodiment, a conditional boundary is created for a first cell. For example, the conditional boundary is created in addition to a place-and-route boundary (prBoundary). The conditional boundary is a boundary configured to enable flexible cell placement within a semiconductor layout environment. In an embodiment, the conditional boundary is a place-and-route boundary configured to facilitate positioning between cells based on a cell layout of a neighboring cell. In an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to a second cell neighboring the first cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell. For example, if a first cell comprises a first prBoundary and a first conditional boundary, and a second cell comprises a second prBoundary and a second conditional boundary, conditional cell placement is enabled according to at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary. In an embodiment, the conditional boundary of the first cell enables placement of the first cell relative to the second cell in a manner such that the first prBoundary overlaps the second prBoundary. Therefore, conditional cell placement is provided in an efficient manner at least because cell placement is not limited merely by the prBoundary as a constraint.","The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects, advantages, or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","Generally, cells of a semiconductor device, such as an AND cell, OR cell, NAND, cell, NOR cell, flip flop cell, XOR cell, INV cell, etc. are laid out in a semiconductor layout environment such that respective cells are abutted according to a place-and-route boundary (prBoundary). However, use of such a prBoundary does not provide for flexible cell placement, at least because cells are generally abutted against a prBoundary of another cell. For example, if a first cell is on a left side and a second cell is on a right side, a prBoundary placement configuration generally requires a prBoundary for the first cell to be abutted against a prBoundary for the second cell during cell placement.","It will be appreciated that in some scenarios, the first cell and the second cell are capable of being compacted such that the prBoundary of the first cell overlaps the prBoundary of the second cell, thus \u201cbreaking\u201d a limitation of the respective prBoundaries. Accordingly, space on a semiconductor device is wasted if such an overlap is not provided in a layout associated with the first cell and the second cell. Additionally, power, performance, and area (PPA) are affected in a negative manner if cell placement is abutted merely based on the respective prBoundaries. In an embodiment, a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided, comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell and placing the first cell relative to a second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell. For example, the conditional boundary of the first cell is abutted against a conditional boundary of the second cell such that a prBoundary of the first cell overlaps a prBoundary of the second cell.","In an embodiment, a conditional boundary for a first cell is created based at least in part on a relationship between a first cell and a second cell. In an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary and a conditional placement rule. For example, if a first cell is laid out in a first manner relative to the second cell in a first scenario and laid out in a second manner relative to the second cell in a second scenario, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell in a corresponding manner based on the conditional boundary and the conditional placement rule.","In an embodiment, a system for conditional cell placement is provided comprising a boundary component configured to create a first conditional boundary and a first place-and-route boundary (prBoundary) for a first cell. In an embodiment, the boundary component is configured to create a second conditional boundary and a second prBoundary for a second cell. Additionally, the conditional cell placement system comprises a placement engine configured to place the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary and at least one of the first prBoundary or the second prBoundary. Therefore, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell according to at least one of the conditional boundaries and at least one of the prBoundaries. For example, in an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell such that the first conditional boundary abuts the second conditional boundary. In another embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell by rotating an orientation of the first cell or flipping the first cell according to a line of symmetry.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","104","106","108","116","182","184","182","184","110","110","182","184","104","108","106","116","110","130","130","120","184","182","104","108","106","116","120","130","120","110","120"]},"In other embodiments, it will be appreciated that a conditional boundary is used to provide additional separation between cells, rather than to a compact cell arrangement. For example, if a first cell comprises a first prBoundary and a second cell comprises a second prBoundary, a first conditional boundary for the first cell is larger than the first prBoundary and a second conditional boundary for the second is larger than the second prBoundary. For example, in another embodiment,  of  is the conditional boundary, rather than . Accordingly, if the cell is abutted to another cell at the conditional boundary , additional separation is provided by spaces  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","182","184","168","162","164","104","106","108","116","104","172","108","174","178","106","178","106","116","110","182","184","104","108","106","116","178","172","174","110","130","130","120","184","182","104","108","106","116","178","172","174","120","130","130","110","120"]},"For at least some of the Figs., it will be appreciated that the first prBoundary , the second prBoundary , the first conditional boundary , and the second conditional boundary  comprise a same height such that a top of the first prBoundary , the second prBoundary , the first conditional boundary , and the second conditional boundary  are at line . In other words, the first prBoundary , the second prBoundary , the first conditional boundary , and the second conditional boundary  are drawn with different heights merely for illustrative purposes, and are not necessarily drawn to scale. That is, because dashed and dotted lines are used to represent different boundaries, if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the Figs. Accordingly, dimensions of some of these boundaries are drawn to be taller or shorter than needed so that the different boundaries are visible in the Figs., for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","104","106","108","116","182","184","112","182","184","204","206","214","216","192","194","114","192","194","112","114","112","114"]},"In an embodiment according to , a first cell on the left is abutted against a second cell on the right based on prBoundaries  and  for the cells. In this example, the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective drain sides , , , and  are closer than the respective source sides , , , and . In other embodiments, the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective source sides , , , and  are closer than the respective drain sides , , , and .","It will be appreciated that space  comprises a gap where no source and no drain exists. Therefore, if the space  between the first cell and the second cell is \u201cremoved\u201d in the layout, the first cell and the second cell are operationally unaffected. In an embodiment, a first conditional boundary  encompasses gate , at least a portion of gate , at least a portion of PMOS source , a PMOS drain , at least a portion of NMOS source , and NMOS drain . In an embodiment, a second conditional boundary  encompasses gate , at least a portion of gate , at least a portion of PMOS source , a PMOS drain , at least a portion of NMOS source , and NMOS drain . First conditional boundary  for the first cell and second conditional boundary  for the second cell are created based at least in part on such a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. For example, since removal of space  does not affect logical operation of the first cell or the second cell, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are created according to space . In an embodiment, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are created based at least in part on at least one of removal of space , an effect of the removal of space  on the first cell or the second cell, or a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an example, the relationship between the first cell and the second cell is associated with removing an amount of space, such as space , such that operation of the first cell, operation of the second cell, and interaction between the first cell and the second cell are logically unaffected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","106","206","116","216","104","204","114","214","104","106","108","116","182","188","204","206","214","216","194","188","188","122","124","122","124","122","124","122","124","112","114","112","114"]},"It will be appreciated that space  of  is removed at least because the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary . Additionally, the first cell and the second cell of  are operationally unaffected by the removal of space  from , in comparison to the first cell and the second cell of . In an embodiment, a unit tile comprises a unit tile width and a unit tile height. For example, a cell width generally follows a multiple of the unit tile width. Similarly, a cell height generally follows a multiple of the unit tile height. In an embodiment, if space  is a multiple of at least one of the unit tile width or unit tile height, the first cell is abutted against the second cell by abutting the first conditional boundary  against the second conditional boundary . In this way the space  is removed, thus saving space  from being used within the semiconductor layout environment, and being filled with decap cells or filler cells, for example.","In an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based at least in part on a conditional placement rule. For example, the conditional placement rule enables the first cell to be placed relative to the second cell based on the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  in a first scenario and places the first cell relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary  and the second prBoundary  in a second scenario. For example, in the first scenario, if the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary , functionality of the first cell and functionality of the second cell are not affected. That is, the first cell and the second cell operate as intended when abutted in a compacted manner associated with removal of space , such as in . However, in the second scenario, if the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary , functionality of the first cell and functionality of the second cell are affected in a negative manner. That is, the first cell and the second cell do not operate as intended when abutted in a compacted manner associated with removal of space , such as in . Therefore, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary  and the second prBoundary  in a second scenario, rather than the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment, the conditional placement rule checks for appropriate functionality to determine a conditional boundary, for example. The conditional placement rule is based on a relationship between the first cell and the second cell in some embodiments. For example, the conditional placement rule enables abutting of cells based on conditional boundaries if a first cell interacts with a second cell in a same manner as when the cells are abutted based on prBoundaries. In other words, in an embodiment, a conditional placement rule checks for the first cell and the second cell of  to comprise a same functionality as the first cell and the second cell of , for example. In an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell by abutting the first cell against the second cell based on at least one of a unit tile width or a unit tile height, a distance from the first conditional boundary  to the second conditional boundary , and no cells between the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment, the first cell is abutted against the second cell if the distance from the first conditional boundary  to the second conditional boundary , such as space  of , is a multiple of the unit tile width. In another embodiment, the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on no source regions and no drain regions between the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment, the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on a design rule check (DRC).","It will be appreciated that in some embodiments, a computer aided design (CAD) layer is created for at least one of the first prBoundary , second prBoundary , first conditional boundary , or second conditional boundary . For example, one or more coordinates are associated with at least one of the first prBoundary , second prBoundary , first conditional boundary , or second conditional boundary . Additionally, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are associated with one or more offsets from the first prBoundary  and the second prBoundary , respectively. In this way, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are referenced by using offsets and the first prBoundary  and the second prBoundary .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502","504","502","122","112","502","124","114","504","122","124","112","114","502","504","504","220","122","124","122","124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","112","682","670","684","104","106","108","116","114","694","670","692","204","206","214","216"]},"It will be appreciated that in some scenarios, PMOS source  and NMOS source  of the first cell are capable of being abutted to PMOS source  and NMOS source  of the second cell. In an embodiment, the PMOS source  of the first cell is abutted to the PMOS source  of the second cell and the NMOS source  of the first cell is abutted to the NMOS source  of the second cell. In an embodiment, the first cell is capable of being abutted to the second cell based on a conditional placement rule. In an example, a conditional placement rule checks for at least one of the PMOS source  or the PMOS source  to be connected to a first power domain or a supply voltage (Vdd)  and at least one of the NMOS source  or the NMOS source  to be connected to a second power domain or a ground (VSS)  and abuts the first cell against the second cell accordingly.","In an embodiment according to , the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary  and the second prBoundary . In an embodiment, a first cell on the left is abutted against a second cell on the right based on prBoundaries  and  for the cells. In this example, the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective source sides , , , and  are closer than the respective drain sides , , , and .","It will be appreciated that space  comprises a gap where an additional gate  separates source regions  and  and  and  for the first cell and the second cell, respectively. In an embodiment, if the space  between the first cell and the second cell is \u201cremoved\u201d in the layout , the first cell and the second cell are operationally unaffected. First conditional boundary  for the first cell and second conditional boundary  for the second cell are created or defined based at least in part on this relationship between the first cell and the second cell. For example, since removal of space  does not affect logical operation of the first cell or the second cell, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are created according to space . In an embodiment, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  are created based at least in part on removal of space , an effect of the removal of space  on the first cell or the second cell, or a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an example, the relationship between the first cell and the second cell is associated with removing an amount of space, such as space , such that operation of the first cell, operation of the second cell, and interaction between the first cell and the second cell are logically unaffected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","304","314","122","124","122","682","684","106","116","304","314","124","694","692","206","216","304","314","122","124","122","124","122","124","104","204","304","108","214","314","230","112","114"]},"It will be appreciated that space  of  is removed at least because the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary . Additionally, the first cell and the second cell of  are operationally unaffected by the removal of space  from , in comparison to the first cell and the second cell of . In this way the space  is removed, thus mitigating use of an additional unit tile width within the semiconductor layout environment. In an embodiment, a conditional placement rule checks for the first cell and the second cell of  to comprise a same functionality as the first cell and the second cell of , for example. Therefore, the conditional placement rule enables conditional cell placement based at least in part on a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an embodiment, a first cell is a neighboring cell relative to a second cell. For example, in an embodiment, a first cell is adjacent to a second cell if no cells are located between a first conditional boundary  of the first cell and a second conditional boundary  of the second cell.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","800","804","122","806","122","122","124","112","114","122","124","808"]},"For at least some of the Figs., it will be appreciated that a first conditional boundary  and a second conditional boundary  are formed at edges  and , respectively. Additionally, the first conditional boundary  and the second conditional boundary  comprise a same width as a first prBoundary  and a second prBoundary , respectively. In other words, the conditional boundaries  and  are drawn with a different width than prBoundaries  and  merely for illustrative purposes, and are therefore not necessarily drawn to scale. That is, because dashed and dotted lines are used to represent different boundaries, if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the Figs. Accordingly, dimensions of some of these boundaries are drawn to be wider or narrower than needed so that the different boundaries are visible in the Figs., for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIGS. 9 and 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","1000","970","974","978","972","976","980","970","974","978","972","976","980","112","114","710","712","720","722","710","974","712","972","720","978","722","980"]},"It will be appreciated that in some embodiments, the first cell is defined by a first conditional boundary  and the second cell is defined by a second conditional boundary . In an embodiment, a first cell is placed relative to a second cell by at least one of rotating an orientation of the first conditional boundary  or flipping the first conditional boundary  according to a line of symmetry. For example, in , the line of symmetry is Vdd . Accordingly, in an embodiment  of , the first cell is flipped over Vdd  such that space  of  is removed and the first cell is abutted against the second cell. For example, in , the first P portion  is above the first N portion , while in , the first P portion  is below the second N portion . In another embodiment, the cell of  is rotated 180 degrees and placed in . In this way, a height of the semiconductor device is reduced from four unit tiles in  to three unit tiles in . For example, the height of the semiconductor device is four unit tiles in  at least because space  is unoccupied.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1102","1100","1104","110","1106","110","1108","1100"]},"Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer-readable medium or a computer-readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium , such as a CD-R, DVD-R, flash drive, a platter of a hard disk drive, etc., on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In an embodiment , the processor-executable computer instructions  are configured to perform a method , such as at least some of the exemplary method  of  or at least some of exemplary method  of , for example. In another embodiment, the processor-executable computer instructions  are configured to implement a system, such as at least some of the exemplary system  of , for example. Many such computer-readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d, \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1300","1312","1312","1316","1318","1318","1314"]},"In other embodiments, device  includes additional features or functionality. For example, device  also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non-removable storage, including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In an embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage  also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  includes input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, or any other output device are also included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  are connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In an embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device . Device  also includes communication connection(s)  to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.","According to an aspect, a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided, comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell. The method comprises placing the first cell relative to a second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell.","According to an aspect, a computer-readable storage medium is provided, comprising computer-executable instructions, which when executed at least in part via a processing unit on a computer perform a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout, comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell based at least in part on a relationship between the first cell and a second cell. In an embodiment, the method comprises placing the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary and a conditional placement rule.","According to an aspect, a system for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided, comprising a boundary component and a placement engine. In an embodiment, the boundary component is configured to create a first conditional boundary and a first place-and-route boundary (prBoundary) for a first cell. In an embodiment, the boundary component is configured to create a second conditional boundary and a second prBoundary for a second cell. In an embodiment, the placement engine is configured to a placement engine configured to place the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary and at least one of the first prBoundary or the second prBoundary.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, illustration, etc., and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application, \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. In addition, \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application are generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also, at least one of A and B and\/or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore, to the extent that \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Aspects of the disclosure are understood from the following detailed description when read with the accompanying drawings. It will be appreciated that elements or structures of the drawings are not necessarily be drawn to scale. Accordingly, the dimensions of the various features may be arbitrarily increased or reduced for clarity of discussion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
