---
title: Sea surface vessel recovery and fueling system
abstract: An apparatus for securing and fueling a surface water vessel at a floating receptacle that is towed by a parent ship. The surface water vessel may be a manned or an unmanned surface vehicle, for example. According to the invention, the surface water vessel includes a retractable probe for securing the water vessel to the floating receptacle and also for receiving fuel from the parent ship via the floating receptacle. The floating receptacle has first and second arms pivotally attached to a mounting block, forming a substantially V-shape having an adjustable apex angle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08568076&OS=08568076&RS=08568076
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08568076
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61\/568,206, filed Dec. 8, 2011, which is incorporated herein by reference.","This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12\/537,376, filed Aug. 7, 2009, which is a continuation in part of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12\/079,063, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,020,505, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.","The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy, and, thus the claimed invention may be manufactured, used, licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.","The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for fueling a surface water vessel, and in particular, an arrangement for the contemporaneous latching and fueling of a surface water vessel at a location that is remote from a parent ship.","The recovery of smaller surface water vessels, such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels (USVs), by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship, servicing operations such as fueling may be performed. Typically, the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a parent ship and lifting by davit into the ship. Alternatively, the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the stern of the larger ship.","Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example, some USVs weigh about 20,000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A capturing method that for example, requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull, resulting in expensive repairs. The prior art does not teach an apparatus that automatically guides, latches, and simultaneously fuels a smaller surface water vessel at a floating receptacle remote from the parent ship.","In one aspect, the invention is a fueling system for securing and fueling a water vessel at a floating receptacle. The fueling system includes a parent ship for supplying fuel and a floating receptacle remote from the parent ship, with the floating receptacle having a substantially V-shape with a substantially V-shaped aperture. In this aspect, the floating receptacle has a first arm, a second arm, and a mounting member, wherein the first and second arm are adjustably attached to the mounting member so that the mounting member, the first arm, and the second arm form the substantially V-shape and substantially V-shaped aperture. The mounting member is at the apex of the substantially V-shape, and the adjustably attached first and second arms allows for an adjustable apex angle \u03b1. In this aspect, the mounting member further includes a receiver. According to the invention, the fueling system also includes a fuel conduit for transporting fuel from the parent ship to the floating receptacle, and a water vessel. The water vessel has a probe for positioning within the receiver of the floating receptacle to contemporaneously latch the water vessel to the receiver and to receive fuel via the fuel conduit at the floating receptacle. In this aspect, the fueling system also has a towing bridle having a plurality of tow lines, the tow bridle attached to and extending between the parent ship and the floating receptacle maintaining a towing tension on the first and second arms of the floating receptacle so that the adjustable apex angle \u03b1 is at a maximum angle. The fueling system also includes an inter arm line connected to each of the first and second arms for restricting the adjustable apex angle \u03b1 at the maximum angle and for reducing the angle \u03b1 to an angle commensurate with the shape of the water vessel, as the water vessel enters into the substantially V-shaped aperture thereby automatically guiding the water vessel towards the receiver.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["101","201","301","101","301","101","100","103","101","100","100","101","100","101","100","101","201","100","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["201","203","200","100","101","100","200","200","222","100","201","301","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIGS. 3A"],"b":["270","301","200","201","270","301","201","101","101","100","200","201","105","101","201","3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"],"b":["103","101","103","101","100","100","100","110","110","101","101","110","111","112","103","100","111","112","100","100","101","101"]},"As shown in , the upper and lower hatch covers  and  are fitted to upper and lower mounting brackets  and , respectively. As shown in  the upper mounting bracket  is pivotally connected to a hull frame portion  by means of pivot , which enables the opening and closing of the upper hatch cover . Also illustrated is the lower mounting bracket , which is also pivotally connected to the frame portion  by means of a pivot , enabling the opening and closing of the lower hatch cover .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"],"b":["141","121","120","111","142","122","120","121","122","100","121","122","100","121","122","111","112","100","100","121","122","111","112","121","125","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2E","FIGS. 2D and 2E"],"b":["103","101","103","103","101","103","101","151","101","103","151","159","100","100","101","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 2D and 2E","b":["152","155","152","153","151","152","155","156","152","155","100","155","157","150","151","150","151","154","150","152","158","150","152","153","155","156","155","100","159","150"]},"The geometry and juxtaposition of the linkages  and  and the corresponding pivot members , , and , and the linear actuator mounting pivots  and  are such that the linear actuator  reaches its maximum length just as the probe  is fully deployed. The aft  and forward  links are positioned such that the corresponding pivot members , , and  are nearly coplanar coincident with the linear actuator  reaching its maximum length. In this configuration, the vast majority of fore and aft forces imposed on the probe  during its engagement with the different elements of the floating receptacle  such as the receiver  for example, are transmitted through the linkages and pivot members outlined above, to the interface mount , and to the host vessel bow section , and finally to the host vessel hull structure without significantly affecting the linear actuator .","The arrangement, as illustrated in  enables a light weight, low power, and inexpensive actuator  to be employed and yet the system can still withstand the engagements loads that can potentially be many thousand times more than that required to extend and retract the probe . In addition, the links ,  and their complementary pivot members , , and  have configurations such that the linear actuator  is either maximally extended when the probe  is fully extended and minimally extended when the probe  is fully retracted. In this embodiment, the foregoing linkage is such that the extension or retraction of the probe  and linear actuator  occur simultaneously and as such no limit switches are required to stop the linear actuator  when a limit is reached, simplifying the control to that of on\/off with reversing polarity to change direction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["201","101","201","201","210","212","210","212","210","212","101","201","210","212","220","222","100"]},"The mounting member  includes a hinge  that pivots about an axis, which in the illustration of  extends perpendicularly out of the page. In operation on calm water, this axis is substantially equal to a vertical axis. The hinge  allows movement of the elongated arms  and , relative to one another, forming an apex region having an apex angle \u03b1 between the arms  and . The angle \u03b1 between the arms can range from zero with both elongated arms parallel to one another to an angle \u03b1 of about 15 degrees to about 25 degrees. This hinged structure allows the elongated arms  and  to be folded together to a zero angle \u03b1 for shipping or storage to minimize the volume required, and when deployed, the arms  and  may be opened to an angle \u03b1 of about 15 degrees to about 25 degrees. In an embodiment of the invention as shown in , the angle \u03b1 between elongated arms  and  is limited by an intra-arm line  that is connected at one end to the port arm  and at the other end to the starboard arm . In operation, the intra-arm line  is attached at bottom portions of the arms  and , and drags in the sea as the floating receptacle  is towed behind the parent ship .","In another embodiment of the invention, the value of the angle \u03b1 between the arms  and  could be constrained by a mechanical stop incorporated into the mounting member . In still another embodiment, the value of the angle \u03b1 between the arms  and  could be mechanically controlled by a powered system incorporated into the mounting member . Such a system could vary the angle \u03b1 throughout the usage cycle and optimize same for each phase of acquisition, engagement, fuel transfer, and release.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIGS. 3A"],"b":["260","260","261","262","263","264","265","266","261","301","261","266","261","227","220","227","266","271","272","210","212","271","210","272","212","3","264","262","261","271","272","265","263","271","272","210","212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3F","b":["264","262","260","269","264","262","269","261","267","264","269","269","264","269","264","262","269","264","262"]},"According to an embodiment of the invention, the tow bridle  may be configured such that the center tow line  is just slack or only lightly tensioned when towing, and in operation, the majority of towing tension is passed from tow line , through the elastic element  on both port  and starboard  forward tow lines and to the aft tow lines  and  via outriggers  and . Towing tension will spread the elongated arms  and , which will rotate symmetrically about hinge  to an included angle \u03b1 that is constrained by the intra-arm line . As outlined above, each arm  and  may be an air-filled chamber, such as a sponson. If a larger included angle \u03b1 is desired, the operator could lengthen the intra-arm line . The tendency for hydrodynamic drag to close the elongated arms  and  is more than offset by the moment created by the towing tension in lines  and  acting through outrigger  on the port side and similarly by lines  and  acting through outrigger  on the starboard side. The included angle \u03b1 must be set, via intra-arm line , to a value that presents an aperture  that is wide enough for the surface water vessel  to reliably find its way into the aperture .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3C"],"b":["210","212","210","212","210","212","214","210","212","214","210","212","211","213","214"]},"During fueling operations, the surface water vessel , which may be a manned or unmanned surface vessel, is first secured and latched by the floating receptacle . After being properly latched, fuel is fed to the water vessel  through the probe . As shown in , this process begins when the bow  of the surface water vessel  is directed into the substantially V-shaped receiving portion  while moving generally in the direction . However securing and latching can only be accomplished if the probe  is properly aligned with the receiver . The water vessel is guided towards the receiver  by the elongated arms  and , which have the substantially V-shaped arrangement with the receiver  at the apex of the V. Thus the arms  and  \u201cfunnel\u201d the surface water vessel  towards the receiver, as outlined below.","As the surface vessel  enters the aperture , the water vessel  encounters the intra-arm line  as this occurs. The keel of the surface water vessel  will press the intra-arm line  deeper into the water. When this occurs, the arms  and  will be pulled together, reducing the included angle \u03b1 until the arms  and  make physical contact with the surface water vessel . At this point the surface vessel  and elongated arms are in contact with one another and forward motion of the surface vessel  in a direction relative to the floating receptacle  (substantially in the direction of arrow ) will force the floating receptacle  into the sea and lift the water vessel  from the sea. This will gradually increase the magnitude of contact force between water vessel  and the arms  and  of the floating receptacle . The increased contact force will tend to dampen relative motion and force the surface vessel  and sled into phase in heave, pitch, sway, roll, and yaw. In this way the floating receptacle  adjusts to the size and shape of vessels such as surface water vessel , which may vary.","The surface water vessel  will reduce its propulsive machinery throttle setting after the probe  connects to the receiver . Once this occurs, the surface water vessel  will be towed by the probe . The increase in towing tension in combination with the reduction of the included angle \u03b1 between elongated arms  and  will stretch the elastic  in port  and starboard  forward tow lines. The elastic  will elastically elongate until the center tow line  becomes tight.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 3D and 3E","FIG. 3D"],"b":["222","222","280","282","220","220","222","100","200","222","282","285","280","295","285","282","280","280","282","299","295","285","299","225","284","282"]},"Also, a set of elastically mounted strips form a top connecting section between the port section  and the starboard section  that act to restrict the relative pitch between the surface water vessel  and the floating receptacle . The elastic mounting of these strips permit them to initially guide and then be displaced by the rake of the hull of the water vessel  as connection is made between the probe  and the receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["100","101","100","100","100","401","403","401","420","401","425","420","420","401","401","420","440","401"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["100","405","410","401","410","401","450","455","401","403","401","403","455","455","455","401","403","430","401","455","403","420","455","455","420","440","401","100"]},"During fueling operations, as shown in , the bow  of the water vessel  is directed between the elongated arms  and  of the floating receptacle , until the probe  is inserted into the receiver . Once the front body portion  of the probe  is engaged by the receiver , in accordance with fueling operations, the surface water vessel  may throttle down in order to be towed by the parent ship . In embodiments in which the water vessel  is a USV, the throttling down may be done automatically or remotely, and in embodiments in which the water vessel is manned, an operator may control the throttling. Because of the throttling down, the front body portion  is pulled forward. When the tension applied to the front body portion  of the probe  exceeds a pre load on the compression spring , the front body portion  will slide forward on the spool . This opens an annular space between the valve seal  and the interior mating surface at the front body portion  at the tip of the probe tip . The opening of this annular space opens the probe fuel port  that extends from within the front body portion  through the ball  to the back body portion . This allows fuel to be pumped through the probe . The fuel port  remains open as long as sufficient towing tension exists. The forward travel of the front body portion  is constrained by the insert . According to this embodiment, the load path for towing tension starts at an external groove at the front body portion , then to the insert , then to the spool , then to the ball , then to the ball retainer  then to the back body portion  of the probe . Because of the spring arrangement outlined above, the valve automatically closes when the tension is lost.","The arrangement of the elements of the probe , as outlined above, also provides the probe with an overall flexibility. As outlined above, and as shown in  showing the probe  in a deployed orientation, the front body portion  of the probe  rides on the spool  at the front where the spool  contacts the interior of the front body portion  near an O-ring seal , and at the back where the insert  contacts the spool . The front body portion  can move axially on the spool  over a short range that is constrained in the forward direction by the insert  contacting the spool  just behind the o ring seal . In the aft direction, the front body portion  is constrained by contact with the ball retainer . The spring  has a relaxed length that is greater than the distance from the insert  to the O-ring surface of the spool . According to one embodiment, this pre load is about 200 pounds.","The pre-load of the spring  serves to keep the above described tension actuated valve in the closed position. The pre-load also serves to hold the aft surface of the front body portion  axis against the flat front surface of the ball retainer , which is normal to the back body portion  and so the front body portion  is held parallel to and axially coincident with the back body portion  when deployed. The front body portion  will remain in this position unless a force is applied to the front body portion  with a component normal to the longitudinal axis of the probe  that will cause the probe tip  to rotate about the center of the ball  by sliding forward on the spool , and thereby additionally compressing the spring . In one embodiment of the invention, the front body portion  will snap back into the configuration where it is parallel to and axially coincident with the back body portion  when the above described force normal to the longitudinal axis of the probe  is applied to the front body portion  is removed. The spring constant and preload force, diameter of the front body portion , and juxtaposition of the pivot axes of the ball , all combine to characterize the flexibility of the front body portion  during a connection with the receiver .","The spool  also includes a weak link feature that minimizes the spilling of fuel if there is a failure in the apparatus. The spool  has a prismatic cross section between the O-ring seal  and ball  except for a tapered section  in the aft. The taper serves two purposes. First, the taper provides clearance to enable a full 45 degrees of rotation of the ball  when assembled, as shown. Second, the taper creates a frangible link where the spool  can fail when and if the system is forced to bend more than the 45 degrees provided for in this embodiment. This failure is an integral part of this embodiment and is meant to serve as a mechanical fuse that will prevent further failures in the surface water vessel  in the event of a collision or other accident. Another feature of above described weak link is that if the spool  fails due to a collision or other event, the ball  will be left in a position rotated 45 degrees from the axis of the back body portion  of the probe , and as such, the probe fuel port  will be blocked, minimizing the amount of fuel that is spilled and the contamination of fuel by sea water.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A"],"b":["200","201","200","100","200","501","507","100","501","507","502","507","515","507","100","520","525","522","525","520","530","531","532","520","505","506","508","506","510"]},"The spring closed valve arrangement is opened by towing tension after the probe  has been successfully captured. In operation, when the front body portion  of the probe  is engaged and gripped by the balls  within the receiver , as outlined above, the surface water vessel  backs off its throttle, and is subsequently towed by the probe . When the towing tension exceeds the preload in the spring , the assembly comprising the receiver housing , piston , gripper balls , and bracket  will move as a unit, sliding aft along the receiver spool . This will open an annular space between the receiver valve seal  and the mating surface on the bracket . This opens the fuel passage  which extends from the annular space, via the openings , and into the interior of the receiver spool . This allows fuel to be pumped through the receiver . The valve opening is constrained by an insert . The seal between the probe  and receiver  is secured by the elastomeric gasket  that is secured in the slot . As shown the slot  is circular and has a trapezoidal cross section. The load path for the towing force begins at the front body portion , and is directed to the balls , to the piston , to pressurized oil (not shown) behind the piston , to the housing , to the bracket  via threaded fasteners (not shown), to the insert , to the spool , and to the yoke .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B"],"b":["100","100","200","100","200","401","100","401","460","401","462","464","401","466","468","470","100","460","462","464","466","468","470"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["200","200","100","580","582","584"]},"In operation, the probe  will be guided into the opening of the receiver . As stated above, the respective outer and inner surfaces of the probe  and the receiver  have a complimentary relationship. The steep tapered conical portion  of the front body portion  of the probe will match the conical section entrance  of the receiver , and will guide the front body portion  of the probe further into the receiver opening when the surface water vessel  is advanced. If the contact force between the front body portion  and the receiver conical surface  exceeds a predetermined preload, the front body portion  will articulate and enter the receiver opening  with its centerline  at a non zero angle to a centerline axis  of the receiver . To avoid jamming and\/or binding, the front body portion  of the probe is designed with the aforementioned external spherical portion . This spherical form permits the front body portion  to assume any angular orientation within the receiver opening  without binding even with close tolerances.","As the front body portion  of the probe is further advanced into the receiver opening , the opening eventually makes contact with the gradual tapered conical portion  of the probe. The tapered portion  of the front body portion  of the probe is formed to gradually bring the receiver , which is mounted on a gimbal (outlined below), and front body portion  into close alignment without binding. Once this alignment has occurred, the centerline axis  of the probe will be positioned substantially co axially with the centerline axis  of the receiver . The juxtaposition of the front step tapered conical portion  of the probe and the forward conical surface  of the receiver enables a liquid tight seal between the steep tapered conical portion probe surface  and the elastomeric gasket  in the front of the receiver . This same juxtaposition enables the probe groove  to be engaged and captured by the gripper balls  of the receiver.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":["200","200","550","200","550","555","551","555","561","502","563","565","200","201","200","551","550","550","220","201","210","212","552","553","552","553","550","201","551","552","553","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 5A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A"],"b":["600","200","600","600","100","200","200","515","507","100"]},"As shown in , the latch and release operating system  includes a reservoir  having hydraulic oil that is removed from the reservoir  via a mesh strainer  and conveyed via a motor driven pump . The system  also includes an accumulator  into which oil that is under pressure flows. The accumulator  stores oil under pressure until the oil is required for a latch or release event. A relief valve  limits the maximum value of oil pressure to a predetermined value. A pressure gauge  is employed to determine the correct pressure setting for the relief valve . The accumulator  is sized sufficient to supply more than one latch attempt and or a latch followed by an immediate release event. The accumulator  is capable of providing a ready supply of pressurized hydraulic oil at a high flow rate and is employed to rapidly complete latching once the probe  is in position within the receiver . The pump  is sized to replenish the accumulator within a time period that is less than that required for the surface water vessel  to disengage from the floating receptacle  following an unsuccessful latching attempt, back off, and make another approach that will permit successive latching attempts until a connection is achieved. The combination of small hydraulic pump  and accumulator  minimizes the total weight and cost of the machinery.","The system  includes sensors, outlined below, that do not control the flow of liquid, but control the latch timing and they also report on the state of the system. As shown in , the system  includes an inductive proximity sensor  mounted in the receiver . The mounting positions the sensor  so that it will detect the presence of the probe  when it has entered the receiver  and is in position to be latched. Also included is an inductive proximity sensor  that detects the presence of the piston  in the receiver when it reaches the full forward position. When the piston is in this position the balls  are forced towards the center of the receiver. If the probe  is in position as sensed by the sensor  and the ball piston  is full forward, as sensed by sensor , then a mechanical latching is achieved. The system  also includes a micro switch sensor  having a magnet  mounted into the moving bracket  of the receiver  and a reed switch  mounted on a small piece of angle aluminum mounted onto the yoke . The reed switch  is normally closed, so when it is close to the magnet  the switch is open.","The system is designed to automatically capture the probe  when it reaches the appropriate position within the receiver . A maintained contact switch  supplies the latching system by connecting electrical voltage to the proximity sensor  in the receiver . The hydraulic pump  is driven by an electric motor not shown that is electrically energized by an operator controlled switch not shown. The probe  enters the aft end of the receiver assembly , specifically the housing . When the probe  reaches the front of the receiver , its presence is detected by proximity sensor . Proximity sensor  responds by sending a 24 VDC signal, which energizes a relay . The relay  connects electrical power to and energizes a solenoid , which shifts a connected three way valve , connecting hydraulic fluid under pressure to the aft side of the piston  via hydraulic connection  on the receiver  and the hydraulic drain to the forward side of the piston  via hydraulic connection  on the receiver .","According to this operation, oil flows into the space between the aft face of the piston  and the housing , moving the piston  forward in the receiver housing . The piston  has a conically tapered interior surface that pushes the steel balls  forward and then forces them into a circular slot formed by the housing  and the receiver bracket . The balls  engage the circular groove in the probe tip . When the piston  has traveled all the way forward in the housing , it will be detected by the sensor . The sensor  then sends a 24 VDC electrical signal that indicates that the receiver  has fully latched. The combination of sensors  and  indicates a successful latching of the probe  into the receiver .","After a latching event the surface water vessel  will reduce propulsive power and will be towed by the latched probe . When the towing tension exceeds the spring preload in the receiver , as outlined above with respect to , the valve will open. When the receiver valve has opened, the magnet  mounted on the moving bracket  will be moved away from the reed switch . This interaction between the elements of the sensor , i.e., the magnet  and the reed switch , essentially closes the sensor  and sends a 24 VDC signal to the controls. The combination of sensors , , and  indicates that the system has latched and that the fluid passageway is open and ready to pass the fuel.","The system  is fitted with a manual override feature that comprises one maintained contact switch  that bypasses the inductive proximity sensor . Consequently, the operator may manually command the receiver  to latch with or without the presence of the probe . This feature can be employed to manually check the system's operability prior to an engagement and to circulate hydraulic oil within the system to, for example, ensure all components are at a similar temperature to reduce the likelihood of thermally locking close fitting components such as the receiver piston  within the housing .","Releasing the probe  from the receiver  is accomplished manually by depressing switch , which when depressed will simultaneously disconnect electrical power from the latch arm switch  and all components downstream as depicted in the figure including the inductive proximity sensor , relay , and solenoid , and energize relay  that will connect electrical power to solenoid  that will shift the three way valve  to connect hydraulic fluid under pressure to the forward side of the piston  via hydraulic connection  on the receiver  and the hydraulic drain to the aft side of the piston  via hydraulic connection  on the receiver . Oil flows into the space between the forward face of the piston  and the housing , moving the piston  aft in the receiver housing  and releasing the probe .","What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms, descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example, elements of the invention may be exaggerated merely to illustrate the operation thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention, which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents, in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other features will be apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 3D and 3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
