---
title: System and method for content storage and retrieval
abstract: A method includes storing content graph information regarding individual items of content accessed by one or more users of a system, storing path graph information comprising the order in which each of the one or more users accessed individual items of content, and selecting individual items of content to be presented to a subsequent user of the system and an order in which such individual items of content are presented to the subsequent user based on the stored content graph information and the stored path graph information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147002&OS=09147002&RS=09147002
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09147002
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120731
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This disclosure generally relates to content management, and in particular, storing, identifying, retrieving, and exploring content and paths for a particular user in order to assist other users in discovering similar information.","Electronic learning or \u201ce-learning\u201d may generally refer to the computer and network-enabled transfer of skills and knowledge. E-learning applications and processes may include Web-based learning, computer-based learning, virtual education opportunities and digital collaboration. Content is delivered via the Internet, intranet\/extranet, audio or video tape, satellite TV, and\/or CD-ROM. It may be self-paced or instructor-led and includes media in the form of text, image, animation, streaming video and audio. Typically, existing e-learning systems have static content that is difficult to customize for individual users.","In one embodiment, a system includes one or more processors, a memory, and computer-executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The instructions are readable by the one or more processors. The instructions, when read and executed, cause the one or more processors to store content graph information regarding individual items of content accessed by one or more users of the system, store path graph information comprising the order in which each of the one or more users accessed individual items of content, and select individual items of content to be presented to a subsequent user of the system and an order in which such individual items of content are presented to the subsequent user based on the stored content graph information and the stored path graph information.","In another embodiment, a method includes storing content graph information regarding individual items of content accessed by one or more users of a system, storing path graph information comprising the order in which each of the one or more users accessed individual items of content, and selecting individual items of content to be presented to a subsequent user of the system and an order in which such individual items of content are presented to the subsequent user based on the stored content graph information and the stored path graph information.","In yet another embodiment, an article of manufacture includes a computer readable medium and computer-executable instructions stored on the computer readable medium. The instructions are readable by a processor. The instructions, when read and executed, cause the processor to store content graph information regarding individual items of content accessed by one or more users of the system, store path graph information comprising the order in which each of the one or more users accessed individual items of content, and select individual items of content to be presented to a subsequent user of the system and an order in which such individual items of content are presented to the subsequent user based on the stored content graph information and the stored path graph information.","Technical advantages of the present disclosure may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures, description and claims included herein. The objects and advantages of the embodiments will be realized and achieved at least by the elements, features, and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["160","160"]},"As  illustrates, a particular implementation of the invention may operate in a network environment comprising network application hosting site , such as an informational web site, social network site, educational web site, and the like. Although  illustrates only one network application hosting site, implementations of the invention may operate in network environments that include multiples of one or more of the individual systems and sites disclosed herein. Client nodes ,  may be operably connected to the network environment via a network service provider or any other suitable means.","A client node may include a computer or computing device including functionality for communicating over a computer network. A client node may include a personal computer  (e.g., a desktop, laptop, notebook, or tablet computer, etc.) or a mobile devices  (e.g., a cellular telephone, a smartphone, a personal digital assistant, etc.). A client node may execute one or more client applications, such as a web browser, to access and view content over a computer network. In particular implementations, the client applications allow users to enter addresses of specific network resources to be retrieved. These addresses can be Uniform Resource Locators, or URLs. In addition, once a page or other resource has been retrieved, the client applications may provide access to other pages or records when the user \u201cclicks\u201d on hyperlinks to other resources. In some implementations, such hyperlinks are located within web pages and provide an automated way for the user to enter the URL of another page and to retrieve that page. The pages or resources can be data records including as content plain textual information, or more complex digitally encoded multimedia content, such as software programs or other code objects, graphics, images, audio signals, videos, and so forth.","The networked systems described herein may communicate over the network  using any suitable communications protocols. For example, client nodes , as well as various servers of the systems described herein, may include Transport Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) networking stacks to provide for datagram and transport functions. Of course, any other suitable network and transport layer protocols can be utilized.","In addition, hosts or end-systems described herein may use a variety of higher layer communications protocols, including client-server (or request-response) protocols, such as the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and other communications protocols, such as HTTP-S, FTP, SNMP, TELNET, and a number of other protocols, may be used. In addition, a server in one interaction context may be a client in another interaction context. Still further, in particular implementations, the information transmitted between hosts may be formatted as HyperText Markup Language (HTML) documents. Other structured document languages or formats can be used, such as eXtensible Markup Language (XML), and the like.","In some client-server protocols, such as the use of HTML over HTTP, a server generally transmits a response to a request from a client. The response may include one or more data objects. For example, the response may include a first data object, followed by subsequently transmitted data objects. In one implementation, for example, a client request may cause a server to respond with a first data object, such as an HTML page, which itself refers to other data objects. A client application, such as a browser, will request these additional data objects as it parses or otherwise processes the first data object.","Mobile client nodes  may use other communications protocols and data formats. For example, mobile client nodes , in some implementations, may include Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) functionality and a WAP browser. The use of other wireless or mobile device protocol suites is also possible. In addition, the network environment may also include protocol translation gateways, proxies or other systems to allow mobile client nodes , for example, to access other network protocol environments. For example, a user may use a mobile client node  to capture an image and upload the image over the carrier network to a content site connected to the Internet.","Network application hosting site  may be a network addressable system that hosts a network application accessible to one or more users over a computer network. The network application may be an informational web site where users request and receive identified web pages and other content over the computer network. The network application may also be a search platform, an on-line forum or blogging application where users may submit or otherwise configure content for display to other users. The network application may also be a social network application allowing users to configure and maintain personal web pages. The network application may also be a content distribution application, (e.g., a music store\/library, a podcasting server), that displays available content, and transmits content to users.","Network application hosting site  may include one or more physical servers  and data store . The one or more physical servers  may be operably connected to computer network  via a router . The one or more physical servers  may host functionality that provides a network application (e.g, a news content site, etc.) to a user. As discussed in connection with , the functionality hosted by the one or more physical servers  may include web or HTTP servers, ad serving systems, geo-targeting systems, and the like. Still further, some or all of the functionality described herein may be accessible using an HTTP interface or presented as a web service using SOAP or other suitable protocols.","Data store  may store application data and\/or content. Content may be stored as digital content data objects. A content data object or content object, in particular implementations, is an individual item of digital information typically stored or embodied in a data file or record. Content objects may take many forms, including: text (e.g., ASCII, SGML, HTML), images (e.g., jpeg, tif and gif), graphics (vector-based or bitmap), audio, video (e.g., mpeg), or other multimedia, and combinations thereof. Content object data may also include executable code objects (e.g., games executable within a browser window or frame), podcasts, etc. Application data may include various user data, metadata, and\/or other data used by a network application to carry out the functionality of the network application. Examples of application data may include path graphs, content graphs, social graphs, and\/or associated user metadata, and graph metadata as described in greater detail below. Structurally, data store  may connote a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular implementations, data store  may be implemented by any suitable physical system including components, such as database servers, mass storage media, media library systems, and the like.","Network application hosting site , in one implementation, provides web pages, such as front pages, that include an information package or module describing one or more attributes of a network addressable resource, such as a web page containing an article or product description, a downloadable or streaming media file, and the like. The web page may also include one or more ads, such as banner ads, text-based ads, sponsored videos, games, and the like. Generally, web pages and other resources include hypertext links or other controls that a user can activate to retrieve additional web pages or resources. A user \u201cclicks\u201d on the hyperlink with a computer input device to initiate a retrieval request to retrieve the information associated with the hyperlink or control.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","120","205","210","220","122","182","184"]},"Network client  may include a web client hosted on client computers , , a client host  located on physical server , or a server host located on physical server . Client host  may be an executable web or HTTP server module that accepts HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP) requests from network clients  acting as a web clients, such web browser client applications hosted on client computers , , and serving HTTP responses including contents, such as HyperText Markup Language (HTML) documents and linked objects (images, advertisements, etc.). Client host  may also be an executable module that accepts Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) requests from one or more client hosts  or one or more server hosts . In some embodiments, client host  may have the capability of delegating all or part of single or multiple requests from network client  to one or more server hosts . Client host , as discussed above, may operate to deliver a network application, such as an informational web page or an Internet search service.","In a particular implementation, client host  may act as a server host  to another client host  and may function to further delegate requests to one or more server hosts  and\/or one or more client hosts . Server hosts  host one or more server applications, such as an ad selection server, sponsored search server, content customization server, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["124","124","124","302","304","306","308","302","304","306","308"]},"In using an e-learning application or other application, a user may follow a path. A path may be a particular trail of content (e.g., text, images, graphics, audio, video, or other multimedia) that a user may follow for a particular purpose (e.g., as part of an e-learning curriculum). A path graph  may comprise a graph which represents a particular path for one or more particular users of an application, in which vertices of the path graph  represent a particular content associated with the users and directed edges of the path graph  represent an order of access of the content. In one embodiment, the content represented by a vertex of the path graph  may include a task to be completed by a user. An example of a path graph  is described in below in connection with . A content graph  may comprise a graph which represents for all users of the application, in which vertices of the content graph  represent individual items of content accessed by the users and directed edges of the content graph  represent an order of accessing the content. An example of a content graph  is described in below in connection with . As described above, a task embodied by vertex of a path graph  may correspond with an associated item of content embodied by a vertex of content graph . Accordingly, each path graph  and\/or content graph  may include a representation of the relationship between individual tasks and their associated items of content (e.g., by way of dotted lines and arrows depicted in ).","In some embodiments, users of the application may be members of a social network. In a social networking service, each user of the social network may create a network profile (e.g., username, password, and\/or biographical information) via a client node , . For example, a user may access the social network via an application program available at the client node and\/or via a website for the social network. Via client nodes , , each user may also specify other users in the social network to which the user has a social tie. In this disclosure, the terms \u201csocial tie\u201d and \u201ctie\u201d may be used to indicate a social relationship between two users in a social network (e.g., a \u201cpeer,\u201d \u201cmentor,\u201d \u201cfriend,\u201d \u201cbuddy,\u201d \u201cconnection,\u201d \u201clink,\u201d etc.), while the term \u201ccontact\u201d may be used to indicate a user for which a user has a social tie. In addition to a social tie existing based on a declared relationship between users, a social tie may also be derived by the social networking service on the basis of shared interests and\/or biographical information of the users. The social networking application, user biographical information, social ties, and contact information may be hosted at network application hosting site  in data store  as social network data . A social graph such as that depicted in  may represent various social ties in a social network. For example, vertices of a social graph may represent users of the social network while edges of the graph depict the existence of social ties between users in the social network.","User profile information  may comprise biographical information relating to users of the application, including name, position, title, education, proficiency, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4J","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["308","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","2","1","1","1","2","2","1","2"]},"Consider that user sX fails the examination at P:Q of the path graph. In response, user mA may create a new path in order that user sX receives remedial instruction, such path including addition lessons represented by vertices P_A and P_B and associated with content C_A and C_B, respectively. As shown in , the network application may add vertices P A and P_B to the path graph, with directed edges from P to P_A, from PA to P_B, from P_B to P:Q, and P:Q to P_A, indicating potential user paths through the path graph. In addition, the network application may add vertices C_A and C_B to the content graph, with directed edges from C to C_A, from C_A to C_B, and from C_B to C, indicating potential user paths through the content represented by the content graph. Furthermore, one or both of the path graph and the content graph may include an indication of the association between P_A and C_A and between P_B and C_B.","As mA continues to mentor sX, mA may create additional vertices P and P associated with content C and C, respectively. For example, vertex P may represent a lesson for a particular subject while P may represent a quiz or examination (as indicated by the \u201cQ\u201d in the vertex P) to determine whether user sX is proficient in the subject matter learned in vertex P. In response, as shown in , the network application may add vertices P and P to the path graph, with directed edges from P:Q to P, and from P to P, indicating potential user paths through the path graph. In addition, the network application may add vertices C and C to the content graph, with directed edges from C to C and from C to C, indicating potential user paths through the content represented by the content graph. Furthermore, one or both of the path graph and the content graph may include an indication of the association between P and C and between P and C.","At a later time, user mA may also mentor user sY having biographical information indicating sY is a \u201cscientist,\u201d as indicated by the social graph depicted in . As shown by the arrow traversing the path P-P:Q-P-P:Q, the network application may recommend a path for user sY, based on the existing path graph, content graph, social graph, user profile information, and\/or other factors. As shown in , sX and sY are not connected by a social tie and do not have similar biographical information, and thus, the network application may not recommend that sY traverse the same path as sX and may select a path based on other factors, such as the fact that the path P-P:Q-P-P:Q is the shortest possible path.","Consider that user sY fails the examination at P:Q of the path graph. In response, user mA may create a new path in order that user sY receives remedial instruction, such path including addition lessons represented by vertices P_A and P_B and associated with content C_A and C_B, respectively. As shown in , the network application may add vertices P_A and P_B to the path graph, with directed edges from P to P_A, from P_A to P_B, from P_B to P:Q, and P:Q to P_A, indicating potential user paths through the path graph. In addition, the network application may add vertices C_A and C_B to the content graph, with directed edges from C to C_A, from C_A to C_B, and from C_B to C, indicating potential user paths through the content represented by the content graph. Furthermore, one or both of the path graph and the content graph may include an indication of the association between P_A and C_A and between P_B and C_B.","At a later time, user mA may cease being a mentor and the path graph may be deleted, as shown in the social graph of . However, the stored content graph, social network data, and\/or user profile information may be used to retrieve paths from the content graph, as described in greater detail below.","Consider that a user sZ joins the social network as a \u201cpeer\u201d of sY as indicated in the social graph of . As shown by the dashed arrow traversing the path C-C-C-C_A-C_B-C, the network application may recommend a path for user sZ, based on the existing content graph, social graph, user profile information, and\/or other factors. In particular, the network application may select this path for sZ based on the fact that sY and sZ have a social tie, and the selected path is that which sY traversed.","Consider that a user sP joins the social network with biographical information indicating that user sP is an \u201cengineer\u201d but does not have a social tie with any other existing user as indicated in the social graph of . As shown by the dashed arrow traversing the path C-C_A-C_B-C-C-C, the network application may recommend a path for user sP, based on the existing content graph, social graph, user profile information, and\/or other factors. In particular, the network application may select this path for sP based on the fact that sP and sX have similar biographical information (e.g., both are engineers), and the selected path is that which sX traversed.","Consider that a user sQ joins the social network without a social tie to an existing user or biographical information matching another user, as shown in the social graph of . In such case, the network application may select a path (e.g., one of either the \u201cshort path\u201d or \u201clong path\u201d shown in ) based on a level of proficiency of the user, based on the user's previous performances associated with other use of the network application and\/or based on profile information.","Consider that a user sR joins the social network without a social tie to an existing user or biographical information matching another user, as shown in the social graph of . Also consider that a number of potential paths A, B, C, D, and E in a content graph are available for traversal by user sR. In such case, the network application may select a path based on feedback (e.g., comments, reviews, ratings) made by other users regarding such paths or content associated therewith. In some embodiments, such feedback information may be stored as part as social network data . For example, paths B, C, and E may include negative comments from other users, and thus, may be eliminated by the network application as potential selected paths for sR, leaving paths A and D as potential paths, as depicted in . Consider that sR has indicated liking prior content associated with content present in path A (e.g., content created by the same user) but not for content present in path D. Based on such information (which, in some embodiments, may be stored as part as social network data ) the network application may select path A over path D, as shown in .","Thus, as shown above, information regarding user content paths may be stored, and such information, along with social network information and user biographical information, may be used to select a path for another user. In embodiments of the present disclosure, a content path for a user may be selected on a vertex-by-vertex basis, based on one or more rules. For example, an initial content graph vertex for a user may be selected by the user based on keyword search or goal, or suggested by social tie or mentor. Following that, given each vertex of the user's path, the following set of rules may be applied to select the subsequent vertex for the user:","1. Consider content vertices connected to the current vertex in the content graph.","2. Consider content vertices in the paths of social network ties of the user that match a keyword search and\/or goal of the user, and\/or are for social network ties having matching or similar biographical information.","3. Consider content vertices in the paths of users who are not social network ties of the user that match a goal of the user and\/or are users having matching or similar biographical information.","4. Employ a structured or semi-structured classification to collect all vertices that have some sort of similarity matching (based on the properties, words, or semantic meanings used for classification) to nodes found using rules 1, 2, and 3. If A represents the collection of nodes found using rules 1, 2, and 3, using structured or semi-structured classification one can find a new set of nodes called B that is some way matched to that of A. After using rule 4, the new set of nodes will be A union B.","5. Sort the vertices collected in rule 4 based on the following priority, and select a vertex based on such priority:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["1","1","2","3","4","5","2","3","4","5","1","3"]},"To select the next vertex for user A, rule 1 may be applied to determine that vertices , , and  are the potential next vertices. From these vertices, rule 2 may provide no result, and rule 3 may be applied to select vertex  on the basis that users A and D have similar biographical information (e.g., both A and D are engineers).","To select the next vertex for user A, rule 1 may be applied to determine that vertices , , and  are the potential next vertices. From these vertices, rules 2 and 3 may provide no result, and rule 4 may be applied to select vertex  on the basis that vertex  matched properties, words, or semantic meanings of previous matches from rules 1-3 and on the basis that rules 2 and 3 provide no present results. To select the next vertex for user A, rule 1 may be applied to determine that nodes  and  are the potential next vertices. From these vertices, rules 2, 3, and 4 may provide no result, and rule 5-B may be applied to select vertex  on the basis that node  has received positive user feedback. Accordingly, employing a content graph, social networking information, and biographical information of users, the rules-based approach described above generates a path ---- for user A, and the network application may present content associated with vertices , , , , and  to user A to accomplish a particular goal.","Particular embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented on one or more computer systems.  illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems  perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems  provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one or more computer systems  performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .","This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system  taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system  may include one or more computer systems ; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems  may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer systems  may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems  may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.","In particular embodiments, computer system  includes a processor , memory , storage , an input\/output (I\/O) interface , a communication interface , and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.","In particular embodiments, processor  includes hardware for executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor  may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage ; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation, processor  may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory  or storage , and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory  or storage  for instructions executing at processor  to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor  for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor  or for writing to memory  or storage ; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual-address translation for processor . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor  may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.","In particular embodiments, memory  includes main memory for storing instructions for processor  to execute or data for processor  to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may load instructions from storage  or another source (such as, for example, another computer system ) to memory . Processor  may then load the instructions from memory  to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor  may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor  may write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor  may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments, processor  executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor  to memory . Bus  may include one or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside between processor  and memory  and facilitate accesses to memory  requested by processor . In particular embodiments, memory  includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate. Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory  may include one or more memories , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.","In particular embodiments, storage  includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage  may include an HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage  may be internal or external to computer system , where appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage  is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments, storage  includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage  taking any suitable physical form. Storage  may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor  and storage , where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage  may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.","In particular embodiments, I\/O interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system  and one or more I\/O devices. Computer system  may include one or more of these I\/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these I\/O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation, an I\/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I\/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I\/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O devices and any suitable I\/O interfaces  for them. Where appropriate, I\/O interface  may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor  to drive one or more of these I\/O devices. I\/O interface  may include one or more I\/O interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I\/O interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O interface.","In particular embodiments, communication interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system  and one or more other computer systems  or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication interface  may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface  for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system  may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system  may include any suitable communication interface  for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface  may include one or more communication interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.","In particular embodiments, bus  includes hardware, software, or both coupling components of computer system  to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation, bus  may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus  may include one or more buses , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.","Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se) to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.","This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor  (such as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of memory , one or more portions of storage , or a combination of these, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments, one or more computer-readable storage media embody software. Herein, reference to software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, software includes one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments, software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments, software is expressed in JAVA, C, or C++. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.","Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment.  illustrates an example network environment . Network environment  includes a network  coupling one or more servers  and one or more clients  to each other. In particular embodiments, network  is an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, or another network  or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .","One or more links  couple a server  or a client  to network . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes one or more wireline, wireless, or optical links . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, or another link  or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links  coupling servers  and clients  to network . In particular embodiments, each server  may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers  may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server, exchange server, database server, or proxy server. In particular embodiments, each server  may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example, a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically, a web server may host HTML files or other file types, or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request, and communicate them to clients  in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.","In particular embodiments, one or more data storages  may be communicatively linked to one or more severs  via one or more links . In particular embodiments, data storages  may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments, the information stored in data storages  may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data storage  may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers  or clients  to manage, e.g., retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data storage .","In particular embodiments, each client  may be an electronic device including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation, a client  may be a desktop computer system, a notebook computer system, a netbook computer system, a handheld electronic device, or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client  may enable a network user at client  to access network . A client  may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .","A client  may have a web browser , such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client  may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other address directing the web browser  to a server , and the web browser  may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server  may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client  one or more Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client  may render a web page based on the HTML files from server  for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation, web pages may render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as, for example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files (which a browser may use to render the web page) and vice versa, where appropriate.","Herein, \u201cor\u201d is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA or B\u201d means \u201cA, B, or both,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, \u201cand\u201d is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA and B\u201d means \u201cA and B, jointly or severally,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.","This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.","All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical objects to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art, and are construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Although embodiments of the present inventions have been described in detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions, and alterations could me made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4J"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
