---
title: Systems and methods for adaptive blind mode equalization
abstract: Various embodiments described herein are directed to methods and systems for blind mode adaptive equalizer system to recover complex valued data symbols from the signal transmitted over time-varying dispersive wireless channels. For example, various embodiments may utilize an architecture comprised of a channel gain normalizer, a blind mode equalizer with hierarchical structure (BMAEHS) comprised of a level 1 adaptive system and a level 2 adaptive system, and an initial data recovery subsystem. The BMAEHS may additionally be comprised of an orthogonalizer for providing a faster convergence speed. In various architectures of the invention, the BMAEHS may be replaced by a cascade of multiple equalizer stages for providing computational and other advantages. Various embodiments may employ either linear or decision feedback configurations. In the communication receiver architectures, differential encoders and decoders are presented to resolve possible ambiguities. Adaptive digital beam former architecture is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08711919&OS=08711919&RS=08711919
owner: 
number: 08711919
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120329
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Broadband wireless systems are currently in a rapid evolutionary phase in terms of development of various technologies, development of various applications, deployment of various services and generation of many important standards in the field. The increasing demand on various services justifies the need for the transmission of data on various communication channels at the highest possible data rates. The multipath and fading characteristics of the wireless channels result in various distortions, the most important of those being the inter-symbol interference (ISI) especially at relatively high data rates. Adaptive equalizers are employed to mitigate the ISI introduced by the time varying dispersive channels and possibly arising from other sources. In one class of adaptive equalizers, a training sequence known to the receiver is transmitted that is used by adaptive equalizer for adjusting the equalizer parameter vector to a value that results in a relatively small residual ISI. After the training sequence, the data is transmitted during which period the equalizer continues to adapt to slow channel variations using decision directed method.","Among the various algorithms to adapt the equalizer parameter vector are the recursive least squares (RLS) algorithm, weighted Kalman filter, LMS algorithm, and the quantized state (QS) algorithm, the last one taught by Kumar et. al. in \u201cAdaptive Equalization Via Fast Quantized-State Methods,\u201d IEEE Transactions on Communications, Vol. COM-29, No. 10, October 1981. Kumar at. al. teach orthogonalization process to arrive at fast and computationally efficient identification algorithms in, \u201cState Inverse and Decorrelated State Stochastic Approximation,\u201d Automatica, Vol. 16, May 1980. The training approach, however, is not desirable in many communication applications such as those involving video conference type of applications that will require a training sequence every time a different speaker talks. Moreover, the need for training sequence results in a significant reduction in capacity as for example, in GSM standard, a very significant part of each frame is used for the equalizer training sequence. Also, if during the decision-directed mode the equalizer deviates significantly due to burst of noise or interference, all the subsequent data will be erroneously received by the receiver until the loss of equalization is detected and the training sequence is retransmitted and so on.","There are many other applications where the equalizers are applied as in antenna beam forming, adaptive antenna focusing of the antenna, radio astronomy, navigation, etc. For example, Kumar et. al. teach in Method and Apparatus for Reducing Multipath Signal Error Using Deconvolution, U.S. Pat. No. 5,918,161, June 1999, an equalizer approach for a very different problem of precise elimination of the multipath error in the range measurement in GPS receiver. In all of the various applications of equalizers and due to various considerations such as the logistics and efficiency of systems, it has been of great interest to have the equalizer adapt without the need for a training sequence. Such equalizers are the termed the \u201cblind mode\u201d equalizers.","Among some of the approaches to blind mode equalization are the Sato's algorithm and Goddard's algorithm that are similar to the LMS and RLS algorithms, respectively, except that these may not have any training period. Kumar, in \u201cConvergence of A Decision-Directed Adaptive Equalizer,\u201d Proceedings of the 22nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 1983, Vol. 22, teaches a technique wherein an intentional noise with relatively high variance is injected into the decision-directed adaptive algorithm with the noise variance reduced as the convergence progressed and shows that the domain of convergence of the blind mode equalizer was considerably increased with the increase in the noise variance at the start of the algorithm. The technique taught by Kumar is analogous to the annealing in the steel process industry and in fact the term simulated annealing was coined after the introduction by Kumar. Lambert et. al., teach the estimation of the channel impulse response from the detected data in, \u201cForward\/Inverse Blind Equalization,\u201d 1995 Conference Record of the 28th Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems and Computers, Vol. 2, 1995. Another blind mode equalization method applicable to the case where the modulated data symbols have a constant envelope and known as constant modulus algorithm (CMA) taught by Goddard in \u201cSelf-recovering Equalization and Carrier Tracking in Two-Dimensional Data Communication System,\u201d IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 28, No. 11, pp. 1867-1875, November, 1980, is based on minimization of the difference between the magnitude square of the estimate of the estimate of the data symbol and a constant that may be selected to be 1.","The prior blind mode equalizers have a relatively long convergence period and are not universally applicable in terms of the channels to be equalized and in some cases methods such as the one based on polyspectra analysis are computationally very expensive. The CMA method is limited to only constant envelope modulation schemes such as M-phase shift keying (MPSK) and thus are not applicable to modulation schemes such as M-quadrature amplitude modulation (MQAM) and M-amplitude shift keying (MASK) modulation that are extensively used in wireless communication systems due to their desirable characteristics. Tsuie et. al. in, Selective Slicing Equalizer, Pub. No. US 2008\/0260017 A1, Oct. 23, 2008, taught a selective slicing equalizer wherein in a decision feedback equalizer configuration, the input to the feedback path may be selected either from the combiner output or the output of the slicer depending upon the combiner output.","The prior blind mode equalization techniques may involve local minima to which the algorithm may converge resulting in high residual ISI. Thus it is desirable to have blind mode adaptive equalizers that are robust and not converging to any local minima, have wide applicability without, for example, restriction of constant modulus signals, are relatively fast in convergence, and are computationally efficient. The equalizers of this invention possess these and various other benefits.","Various embodiments described herein are directed to methods and systems for blind mode adaptive equalizer system to recover the in general complex valued data symbols from a signal transmitted over time-varying dispersive wireless channels. For example, various embodiments may utilize an architecture comprised of a channel gain normalizer comprised of a channel signal power estimator, a channel gain estimator and a parameter a estimator for providing nearly constant average power output and for adjusting the dominant tap of the normalized channel to close to 1, a blind mode equalizer with hierarchical structure (BMAEHS) comprised of a level 1 adaptive system and a level 2 adaptive system for the equalization of the normalized channel output, and an initial data recovery for recovery of the data symbols received during the initial convergence period of the BMAEHS and pre appending the recovered symbols to the output of the BMAEHS providing a continuous stream of all the equalized symbols.","The level 1 adaptive system of the BMAEHS is further comprised of an equalizer filter providing the linear estimate of the data symbol, the decision device providing the detected data symbol, an adaptation block generating the equalizer parameter vector on the basis of a first correction signal generated within the adaptation block and a second correction signal inputted from the level 2 adaptive system. The cascade of the equalizer filter and the decision device is referred to as the equalizer. The first correction vector is based on the error between the input and output of the decision device. However, in the blind mode of adaptation, the first error may converge to a relatively small value resulting in a false convergence or convergence to one of the local minima that are implicitly present due to the nature of the manner of generation of the first error. To eliminate this possibility, the level 2 adaptive system estimates a modeling error incurred by the equalizer. The modeling error is generated by first obtaining an independent estimate of the channel impulse response based on the output of the decision device and the channel output and determining the modeling error as the deviation of the impulse response of the composite system comprised of the equalizer filter and the estimate of the channel impulse response from the ideal impulse comprised of all but one of its elements equal to 0. In case the equalizer tends to converge to a false minimum, the magnitude of the modeling error gets large and the level 2 adaptive system generates the second correction signal to keep the modeling error small and thereby avoiding convergence to a false or local minimum.","In the invented architecture, the channel gain estimator is to normalize the output of the channel so as to match the level of the normalized signal with the levels of the slicers present in the decision device, thereby resulting in increased convergence rate during the initial convergence phase of the algorithm. This is particularly important when the modulated signal contains at least part of the information encoded in the amplitude of the signal as, for example, is the case with the MQAM and MASK modulation schemes.","In another one of the various architectures of the invention for blind mode adaptive equalizer system, the BMAEHS is additionally comprised of an orthogonalizer, wherein the two correction signals generated in level 1 and level 2 adaptive systems are first normalized to have an equal mean squared norms and wherein the orthogonalizer provides a composite orthogonalized correction signal vector to the equalizer. The process of orthogonalization results in introducing certain independence among the sequence of correction signal vectors. The orthogonalization may result in fast convergence speeds in blind mode similar to those in the equalizers with training sequence.","In another one of the various architectures of the invention for blind mode adaptive equalizer system, the BMAEHS is replaced by a cascade of multiple equalizer stages with multiplicity m greater than 1 and with each equalizer stage selected to be one of the BMAEHS or the simpler blind mode adaptive equalizer (BMAE). In the architecture, the input to the ith equalizer stage is the linear estimate of data symbol generated by the (i\u22121)th equalizer stage, and the detected data symbol from the (i\u22121)th equalizer stage provides the training sequence to the ith equalizer stage during the initial convergence period of the ith equalizer stage for i=2, . . . , m. In one of the embodiments of the architecture, m=2, with the first equalizer stage selected to be a BMAEHS and the second equalizer stage selected to be a BMAE. In the cascaded architecture, the BMAEHS ensures convergence bringing the residual ISI to a relatively small error such that the next equalizer stage may employ a relatively simple LMS algorithm, for example. The equivalent length of the cascade equalizer is the sum of the lengths of the m stages, and the mean squared error in the estimation of the data symbol depends upon the total length of the equalizer, the cascaded architecture has the advantage or reduced computational requirements without a significant loss in convergence speed, as the computational requirement may vary more than linearly with the length of the equalizer,","Various architectures of the invention use a linear equalizer or a decision feedback equalizer in the level 1 adaptive system. In one of the various architectures of the invention, FFT implementation is used for the generation of the second correction signal resulting in a further significant reduction in the computational requirements.","In various embodiments of the invention, an adaptive communication receiver for the demodulation and detection of digitally modulated signals received over wireless communication channels exhibiting multipath and fading is described with the receiver comprised of an RF front end, an RF to complex baseband converter, a band limiting matched filter, a channel gain normalizer, a blind mode adaptive equalizer with hierarchical structure, an initial data segment recovery circuit, a differential decoder, a complex baseband to data bit mapper, and an error correction code decoder and de-interleaver providing the information data at the output of the receiver without the requirements of any training sequence.","The differential decoder in the adaptive receiver performs the function that is inverse to that of the encoder in the transmitter. The differential encoder is for providing protection against phase ambiguity with the number of phase ambiguities equal to the order of rotational symmetry of the signal constellation of the baseband symbols. The phase ambiguities may be introduced due to the blind mode of the equalization. The number of phase ambiguities for the MQAM signal is 4 for any M equal to N2 with N equal to any integer power of 2, for example M=16 or 64. The architecture for the differential encoder is comprised of a phase threshold device for providing the reference phase for the sector to which the baseband symbol belongs, a differential phase encoder, an adder to modify the output of the differential phase encoder by a difference phase, a complex exponential function block, and a multiplier to modulate the amplitude of the baseband symbol onto the output of the complex exponential function block, and applies to various modulation schemes. The architecture presented for the decoder is similar to that of the differential encoder and is for performing the function that is inverse to that of the encoder.","In various embodiments of the invention, an adaptive beam former system is described with the system comprised of an antenna array, a bank of RF front ends receiving signals from the antenna array elements and a bank of RF to baseband converters with their outputs inputted to the adaptive digital beam former that is further comprised of an adaptive combiner, a combiner gain normalizer, a decision device, and a multilevel adaptation block for receiving data symbols transmitted form a source in a blind mode without the need for any training sequence and without the restriction of a constant modulus on the transmitted data.","The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and sets forth the best modes contemplated by the inventor of carrying out his invention. Various modifications, however, will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art, since the generic principles of the present invention have been defined herein specifically to provide systems and methods for blind mode equalization of signals received over time varying dispersive channels, and for recovering the data symbols transmitted from a source in blind mode with adaptive beamformers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"sub":["k+ ",{"sub2":"1"},"1","1 ","k","I,k","Q,k","I,k ","Q,k ","k ","0 ","0 ","0","I,k ","Q,k ","0","k ","0 ","k+ ",{"sub2":"1 "},"1","\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"\u22121","0","1","M",{"sub2":"1"},"k ","k+ ",{"sub2":"1"},"n","k+ ",{"sub2":"1"},"k+ ",{"sub2":"1"}],"o":["K","K","h","h"],"sup":["2 ","cT ","cT","c ","c","c","c","c","cT ","c ","2 ","c","c "],"b":["1","2","3","5","4","6","80"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":[{"o":"h"},"=[h",". . . h","h","h",". . . h"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"y","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["h","i"],"msup":{"mi":"c","mo":"*"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"},"mo":"-","mi":"i"}}}},{"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"cH"},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["x","_"]}}],"mo":"="}},"mo":";"},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"k","mn":"0"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mi":"a","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"a","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"k","mn":"0"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}],"mo":[",","\u2062",",",",","\u2062",","],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}},"mi":"T"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"z","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"y","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mi":["n","c"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["K","_"]},"mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":[";",";"]},"mo":[",",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}]}}},"br":{}},"Referring to , the noisy channel output signal  zis input to the channel gain normalizer block . The channel gain normalizer estimates the average signal power at the output of the discrete-time channel and normalizes the noisy channel output signal  such that the signal power at the output of the channel gain normalize  remains equal to some desired value even in the presence of the time-varying impulse response of the discrete-time channel as is the case with the fading dispersive channels in digital communication systems. The output  of the channel gain normalize  is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["h","i"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["k","i"],"mo":["+","-"],"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}}}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"},"mo":[",",",",","],"mn":["1","2"],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["1","1","p ","p ","i","1","1","k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"\u22121","0","1","M",{"sub2":"1"},"0","1","k",{"sub2":"0 "}],"o":["K","x"],"b":"7","in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["z","=h",{"o":"x"},"+n",";h","=[h",". . . h","h","h",". . . h","]*;k","=k+K"],"sup":["\u2212H","\u2212H"]},"Referring to , the output  of the channel gain normalize block  zis input to the level 1 adaptive system , of the blind mode adaptive equalizer with hierarchical structure (BMAEHS) , that provides the detected data symbols  aat time k=\u2212M, \u2212M+1, . . . with N=K\u2212Mdenoting the equalizer delay. The level 1 adaptive system  is comprised of an equalizer filter  with a time varying equalizer parameter vector of length N=N+N+1 for some positive integers Nand Nwhere Nand Nmay be selected to be equal, an adaptation block  that adjusts the equalizer parameter vector  , and the decision device  that detects the data symbol from the input signal  present at the input of the decision device  based on the decision function \u0394( ). In various embodiments of the invention, the equalizer filter  may be a linear or a decision feedback filter, or a more general nonlinear equalizer filter characterized by a time varying parameter vector  . In one of the various embodiments of the invention with the decision feedback equalizer, the detected symbol  ais fed back to the equalizer filter  via the delay block  that introduces a delay of one sample as shown in . The output of the delay  is inputted to the equalizer filter . In one of the various embodiments of the invention with the linear equalizer, the equalizer state vector  is comprised of the equalizer input zand the various delayed versions of zand is given by\n\n ]\u2003\u2003(5)\n","In an alternative embodiment of the invention with the case of the decision feedback equalizer filter, the equalizer state vector  is also comprised of the various delayed versions of detected symbol  a. Referring to , the gain normalizer output also referred to as the normalized channel output  z, is input to the delay  that introduces a delay of Ksamples in the input  and provides the delayed version  zto the model error estimator and the correction signal generator (MEECGS) block  of the level 2 adaptive system . Referring to , the detected data symbol  at the output of the decision device , and the equalizer parameter vector  are input to (MEECGS) block . The MEECGS block  estimates the channel impulse response vector from the detected symbol  aand the delayed normalized channel output  z, determines any modeling error made by the level 1 adaptive system  and generates the correction signal  to mitigate such a modeling error.","In the process of the blind mode equalization by the BMAEHS, the estimate of the data symbols  aduring the initial period of convergence of the BMAEHS of length Nhas relatively high probability of error. The initial period of convergence Nis the time taken by the BMAEHS  to achieve some relatively small mean squared equalizer error measured after the first N+1 samples at the output  of the channel gain normalize  are inputted to the BMAEHS  and may be selected to be about 100-200 samples. The data symbols during the initial convergence period are recovered by the initial data recovery block  of .","Referring to , the output  of the channel gain normalize  zis inputted to the quantizer block . The quantizer  may quantize the input samples to (n+1) bits with ndenoting the number of magnitude bits at the quantizer output, so as to minimize the memory requirements for storing the initial segment of the channel gain normalizer output. The number of quantizer bits may be selected on the basis of the signal to noise power ratio expected at the noisy channel output signal  so that the variance of the quantization noise is relatively small compared to the variance of the channel noise. The signal to quantization noise power ratio is given approximately by 6(n+1) dB and a value of nequal to 3 may be adequate. In various other embodiments of the invention, the quantizer may be eliminated and the channel gain normalizer output  zmay be directly inputted to the delay .","Referring to , the output of the quantizer  zis inputted to the delay  that introduces a delay of Nsamples. The output of the delay  is inputted to the fixed equalizer . The fixed equalizer is comprised of the cascade of the equalizer filter and the decision device blocks similar to the equalizer filter  and the decision device  blocks respectively of the BMAEHS . As shown in , initially the switch Sis in open position and the fixed equalizer parameter vector  remains fixed at =[0 . . . 010 . . . 0]until the switch Sis closed. At k+K=N\u2261N+N, the switch Sis closed and the fixed equalizer parameter vector  is set equal to the equalizer parameter vector  at the time of closing the switch and remains fixed for k+K>N. The output of the fixed equalizer  a, M=K\u2212N, is connected to the position  of the switch S. Referring to , the detected symbol is input to the delay  that introduces a delay of Nsamples. The output  of the delay  equal to ais connected to the position  of the switch S. The position  of the switch S is connected to the ground. For k+K<N, the switch S remains in position  and the output of the switch S is equal to 0 during this period. During the period N\u2266k+K<N+N, the switch S is connected to position  and the final detected data is taken from the output of the fixed equalizer . During the period k+K\u2267N+N, the output of the switch S is taken from the output of the BMAEHS . The output of the switch S constitutes the final detected data symbol  a. In various other embodiments of the invention, the recovery of the initial data segment may not be required and the initial data segment recovery block of  may not be present. In such alternative embodiments the final detected symbol output is taken directly from the output of the BMAEHS. As shown in , the detected symbol  amay be inputted to the channel gain normalizer block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["101","80","110","111","110","112","111","112","113","114","113"],"sub":["i ","i ","i ","i ","k ","k","I,k","Q,k","I,k ","Q,k ","0 ","0 ","0"],"sup":"m "},"Referring to , the sequence of baseband symbols  bis input to the differential encoder block . The differential encoder block  transforms the sequence of baseband symbols  binto another complex valued sequence of data symbols  awherein the signal constellation of ais same as that of the sequence b. For example, for the case of the QPSK modulation with a=a+ja, both aand amay take possible values Aand \u2212A. The differential encoder  protects the information data  against possible phase ambiguity introduced at the receiver. The phase ambiguity may arise, for example, in the generation of the reference carrier signal, not shown, using nonlinear processing of the received signal as by the use of a fourth power nonlinearity in the case of QPSK modulation. The phase ambiguity may also occur in the use of the blind mode adaptive equalizer and may have a value of 2\u03c0n\/M with n=0, 1, . . . , (M\u22121) for the case of MPSK modulation with M=4 for the QPSK modulation. More generally the number of phase ambiguities arising due to the blind mode equalizer may be equal to the number of distinct phase rotations of the signal constellation diagram that leaves the signal constellation diagram invariant.","Referring to  the sequence of the data symbols  aat the output of the differential encoder  is inputted to the band limiting filter . The band limiting filter  may be a square root raised cosine filter used to minimize the bandwidth required for the transmission of the modulated RF signal. With the use of the square root raised cosine filter the absolute bandwidth of the filtered signal uat the output  of the band limiting filter is reduced to R(1+r)\/2 where Ris the symbol rate of the data symbols aand r with 0<r\u22661 denotes the filter roll off factor as compared to a zero crossing bandwidth of the input data symbol sequence aequal to R. The band limited symbol sequence  uis inputted to the complex baseband to RF converter block  that shifts the center frequency of the spectrum of the signal  uto the RF or possibly an intermediate (IF) frequency. The complex baseband to RF converter block  may in general have several stages including the conversion to the RF or some intermediate frequency (IF), and digital to analog conversion. The RF signal  u(t) at the output of the complex baseband to RF converter block  is inputted to the RF back end block  that is comprised of the RF band pass filter, the power amplifier, and possibly conversion from IF to RF frequency. The amplified signal  u(t) is connected to the transmit antenna  for transmission of the RF signal into the wireless channel that may exhibit multipath propagation and fading resulting in the introduction of the inter symbol interference (ISI) in the transmitted signal.","Referring to  the RF signal at the output of the wireless channel is received by the receive antenna  providing the received RF signal  \u03bd(t) to the input of the RF front end block  of receiver . The RF front end block may be comprised of a low noise amplifier (LNA), RF band pass filter, other amplifier stages, and possibly conversion from RF to IF and provides the amplified RF signal  \u03bd(t) at the output of the RF front end block. The receive antenna  and the RF front end block  may introduce additive noise including the thermal noise into the signal RF signal in the process of receiving and amplifying the RF signal at the output of the wireless channel. Referring to , the amplified RF signal  is inputted to the RF to complex baseband converter block  that down converts the RF signal to the complex baseband signal . The RF to complex baseband converter block  may be comprised of a RF to IF down converter, the IF to complex baseband converter and an analog to digital converter. The complex baseband signal  \u03bdat the output of the RF to complex baseband converter block  is inputted to band limiting matched filter block  that may be comprised of a band limiting filter that is matched to the band limiting filter used at the transmitter and a down sampler. For the case of square root raised cosine filter used as the band limiting filter  at the transmitter, the band limiting filter  at the receiver is also the same square root raised cosine filter  at the transmitter. The design of the band limiting matched filter block  and various other preceding blocks both in the transmitter and receiver are well known to those skilled in the art of the field of this invention.","Referring to  the output  zwith denoting some reference positive integer, of the band limiting matched filter block  is inputted to the blind mode adaptive equalizer system . The blind mode adaptive equalizer system is comprised of the channel gain normalizer , the blind mode adaptive equalizer with hierarchical structure (BMAEHS)  and the initial data segment recovery circuit . The details of the blind mode adaptive equalizer system  are shown in . The cascade of the various blocks comprised of the band limiting filter , complex baseband to RF converter , the RF back end  and the transmit antenna , at the transmitter, wireless communication channel, and the receive antenna , the RF front end , RF to complex baseband converter  and the band limiting matched filter  at the receiver may be modeled by the cascade comprised of an equivalent discrete time channel  with input symbols awith denoting some positive reference integer wherein a channel noise is added to the output of the channel  as shown in . The equivalent discrete time channel may have some unknown impulse response that models the combined response of all the blocks in the said cascade.","Referring to , the channel gain normalizer  estimates the average signal power at the output of the equivalent discrete-time channel and normalizes the noisy channel output such that the signal power at the output of the channel gain normalizer remains equal to some desired value even in the presence of the time-varying impulse response of the discrete-time channel as is the case with the fading dispersive channels in the digital communication system of the . The BMAEHS  mitigates the impact of the inter symbol interference that may be caused by the multipath propagation in the wireless channel without requiring any knowledge of the channel impulse response or the need of any training sequence. The detected symbols during the initial convergence time of the BMAEHS may have relatively large distortion. The initial data segment recovery block  of  reconstructs the detected symbols during the initial convergence time based on the converged parameters of the BMAEHS and pre appends to the detected symbols at the output of the BMAEHS after the initial convergence time thereby mitigating the ISI from the initial data segment as well. The sequence of the final detected data symbols with Ndenoting the initial convergence time for the BMAEHS and Ma positive integer, the output of the blind mode adaptive equalizer system are inputted to the differential decoder block . The differential decoder block  performs an inverse operation to that performed in the differential encoder block  at the transmitter generating the sequence of the detected baseband symbols  bat the output.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 2","FIG. 3A"],"b":["115","203","205","206"],"sub":["k ","2","b,k ","k ","b,k ","r,k ","p","r,k","p","b,k","i","t",{"sub2":"i"},"b,k","t",{"sub2":"i+1"}],"sup":"\u22121","br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["=D",";i=",", . . . ,S\u2212"]},"In (6) S denotes the order of rotational symmetry of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband signal bequal to the number of distinct phase rotations of the signal constellation diagram that leave the signal constellation unchanged and is equal to the number of phase ambiguities that may be introduced by the blind mode equalizer. In (6) \u03c6; i=0, 1, . . . , S\u22121 are the S threshold levels of the phase threshold device .","For illustration,  shows the signal constellation diagram of the 16 QAM signal that has order of rotational symmetry S equal to 4 with the possible phase ambiguities equal to 0, \u03c0\/2, \u03c0, 3\u03c0\/2 as the rotation of the signal constellation diagram by any of the four values 0, \u03c0\/2, \u03c0, 3\u03c0\/2 leaves the signal constellation unchanged. The threshold levels for the 16 QAM signal are given by . \u03c6=0, \u03c6=\u03c0\/2, \u03c6=\u03c0, \u03c6=3\u03c0\/2. The range of the phase given by \u03c6\u2266\u03b8<\u03c6defines the isector of the signal constellation diagram equal to the iquadrant of the signal constellation diagram in  for i=0, 1, 2, 3. Referring to  the output of the phase threshold device  is equal to the reference phase \u03c6for the isector if \u03b8lies in the isector or quadrant. The output of the phase threshold device  base phase  \u03b8is equal to one of the S possible values \u03c6, . . . , \u03c6Referring to , the minimum reference phase \u03c6is subtracted from the base phase  \u03b8by the adder . The output  \u03b8of the adder  is inputted to the phase accumulator  comprised of the adder , mod 2\u03c0 block  and delay , provides the output  \u03b8according to equation (2b).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mrow":{"mi":["c","k"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mi":"mod","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b8","mrow":{"mi":["i","k"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"\u03b8","mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":"+"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"},{"mi":"\u2026","mo":["\u2062",";"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":",","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}}],"mo":[",",","],"mn":"1"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mi":"mod","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mi":"x","mo":"-","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mfrac":{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mn":"2","mi":"\u03c0"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}}},"In (8) \u2514x\u2518 denotes the highest integer that is smaller than x for any real x. The use of mod 2\u03c0 block  in  is to avoid possible numerical build up of the accumulator output phase  by keeping the accumulator output  within the range 0 to 2\u03c0 for all values of time k.","Referring to , the phase accumulator output  is inputted to the adder  that adds the phase \u03c6providing the output  \u03b8to the adder . Referring to  for the case of 16QAM constellation, \u03c6=\u03c0\/4 and \u03b8takes possible values 0, \u03c0\/2, \u03c0, 3\u03c0\/2. The output  \u03b8of the phase accumulator can also have 0, \u03c0\/2, \u03c0, 3\u03c0\/2 as the only possible values. The output  \u03b8of the differential phase encoder  has \u03c0\/4, 3\u03c0\/4, 5\u03c0\/4, 7\u03c0\/4 as the only possible values.","Referring to , the signal  \u03b8is subtracted from the signal  \u03b8by the adder  providing the output  \u03b8to the adder  that adds  \u03b8to the differential phase encoder output  \u03b8providing the phase of the encoded signal  \u03b8at the output. The phase  \u03b8is inputted to the block  providing the output  exp [j\u03b8]; j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} to the multiplier . Referring to , the baseband symbol bis inputted to the absolute value block  that provides the absolute value  |b| to the multiplier . The output  a=|b|exp(j\u03b8); j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} of the multiplier  is the differentially encoded data symbol a. The process of differential encoding leaves the magnitude of the symbol unchanged with |a|=|b| and with only the symbol phase modified.","As an example of the differential encoding process,  illustrates the encoding for the 16QAM signal. In , the subscript k on various symbols has been dropped for clarity. Referring to , the signal point b=(A+j2A); \u221a{square root over (\u22121)}, marked by the symbol  in , is encoded into the signal point a=(\u2212A+j2A); j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} marked by the symbol  in the figure. Referring to , the phase \u03b8is equal to \u03c6=\u03c0\/4, with the corresponding phase  \u03b8equal to 0. In the illustration of , \u03b8is equal to \u03c0 resulting in phase \u03b8equal to \u03c0. Addition of \u03c6=\u03c0\/4 to \u03b8results in the phase  \u03b8equal to 5\u03c0\/4 that is equal to \u03c6. Addition of phase  \u03b8equal to tan(3\/1)\u2212\u03c0\/4\u22450.15\u03c0 to the phase \u03b8=5\u03c0\/4 results in \u03b8=1.4\u03c0 as shown in . With the magnitude of agiven by |a|=A\u221a{square root over (10)}, the encoded data symbol a=A\u221a{square root over (10)}exp(j1.4\u03c0); j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} is obtained as shown in  by the symbol . For the case of the PSK signals, the phase threshold device  D( ) is bypassed with the output  \u03b8equal to the phase  \u03b8and with the phase  \u03b8equal to 0.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["131","242","243","243","245","244","245","270","259","244","246","250","251","252","254","255","258","255","259","260","243","244","246","247","260","259","261"],"sub":["k","2","a,k ","k","a,k ","o,k ","p","r,k ","o,k ","0 ","r,k ","q,k","o,k","0","q,k ","q,k\u22121 ","q,k\u22121 ","q,k ","i,k","q,k","q,k\u22121 ","0 ","i,k ","r,k ","a,k ","o,k ","d,k","a,k","o,k ","d,k ","r,k ","b,k ","k"],"sup":["d","\u22121","d","d"]},"Referring to , the detected data symbol  a, is inputted to the absolute value block  providing the absolute value  |a| to the multiplier . The output  \u03b8is inputted to the block  providing the output  exp [j\u03b8]; j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} to the multiplier . The multiplier  provides the data detected symbol  b=|a|exp(j\u03b8); j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} at the multiplier  output.","Referring to , the detected baseband symbols  are input to the complex baseband to data bit mapper  that maps the complex baseband symbols  into groups of m binary bits each based on the mapping used in the complex baseband modulator block  at the transmitter. The sequence of the detected coded data bits  \u0109at the output of the complex baseband to data bit mapper block  is inputted to the error correction code decoder and deinterleaver block  that performs inverse operations to those performed in the error correction code encoder and interleaver block  at the transmitter and provides the detected information data sequence  {circumflex over (d)}at the output. In some communication systems, the band limiting filter may intentionally introduce some ISI caused by selecting the symbol rate to be higher than the Nyquist rate so as to increase the channel capacity. The blind mode adaptive equalizer system  of ,  will also mitigate the ISI arising both due to the intentionally introduced ISI and that arising from the wireless channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["7","6","370","6","6","310","311","310","1","320","311","313","1","2","330","330"],"sub":["k",{"sub2":"0"},"0","1","1 ","k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0 "},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"p","k",{"sub2":"0"},"\u22121","k",{"sub2":"0"},"0","\u22121","P","p","0","p","P ","k",{"sub2":"0"},"k",{"sub2":"0"},"P","k",{"sub2":"0"},"\u22121","\u22121","0"],"sup":["c","c","2 ","a ","a","a","a ","p ","p","p","p"],"o":["K","K"],"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[";k",";k"]},"From (10), the value of \u03bais given by \u03ba=(1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb); k=0, 1, . . . . The outputs of the accumulators  and  blocks  and  are inputted to divider  that divides the output  \u03b6of the accumulator  by the output  \u03baof the accumulator  providing the average power estimate  P=\u03b6\/\u03baat the output of the divider .","Referring to , the average power estimate  Pis input to the adder  that subtracts the estimate of the noise variance  {circumflex over (\u03c3)}from  Presulting in the estimate  Pof the signal power at the discrete-time channel  output. The noise variance estimate  may be some a-priori estimate of the channel noise variance or may be set equal to 0. The signal power estimate  Pis input to the divider  that has its other input made equal to the desired signal power  P=E [|a|] with E denoting the expected value operator. The desired signal power may be normalized by an arbitrary positive constant, for example by Awith Asimultaneously normalizing the threshold levels in (23)-(24) of the decision device  and the expected value E[|a|] in (14), (15). The divider  block divides the signal power estimate  Pby  Pand outputs the result  P=P\/P. The divider  output  Prepresenting the discrete-time channel power gain is input to the square root block  that provides the channel gain  G=\u221a{square root over (P)} at the output of the square root block. The channel gain Gis made available to the multiplier . The initial convergence rate of the BMAEHS  may be increased by adjusting the channel gain Gby a factor \u03b1that is derived on the basis of the statistics of the detected symbol aat the output  of the BMAEHS. The adjustment factor \u03b1is derived such that the expected value of the magnitude of the real and imaginary components of a=a+ja; j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)} approach E [|a|] and E[|a|]; a=a+ja, respectively with convergence, where E denotes the expected value operation. Referring to , the detected symbol ais inputted to the absolute value | |block . where in the operation of the absolute value block  for any complex valued argument z is defined by\n\n|=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)};real\u2003\u2003(11)\n","Referring to , the output ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msubsup":{"mi":["a","d"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},"mi":"c"}}},"br":{},"b":["372","374","60","374","374","395","376","377","379","385","382","377","376","377","377","379","380","377","377"],"sub":["1","p","1","1 ","k ","k ","s ","s ","k\u2212n",{"sub2":"s "},"k","k\u22121"],"figref":"FIG. 5","sup":["s ","s "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","s"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","-"],"msub":[{"mi":["v","k"]},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["n","s"]}}}]}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","s"],"mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":["-","+"],"msub":{"mi":["n","s"]},"mn":"1"}},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["v","j"]}}}],"mo":[";",";"]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["k","s ","|","|","s ","|"],"sup":["s ","s ","s ","a "],"b":["377","385","378","381","382","382"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","a"],"mo":"\u2758"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":["n","s"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u2758","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","s"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mo":"\u2758","msub":{"mi":["n","s"]}}]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["v","i"]}}}},"mo":";"},"mo":"\u2758"},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":[",",","],"mn":"2","mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":["|","|","k",{"sub2":"c"},"k",{"sub2":"c"},"I,k","Q,k","k","I,k","Q,k","I,k ","Q,k ","0 ","0 ","k",{"sub2":"c"},"0","0"],"sup":["a ","a "],"b":["395","386","384"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["E[|a","]=E[|a","|]+jE[|a","|];a","=a","+ja",";j","E[|a","A","+j","A",";j"]},"Referring to , the output of the divider  e=\u03bd{E [|a|]}may measure the deviation of the magnitude of the real and imaginary components of the BMAEHS  output from the expected values E[|a|] and E[|a|] respectively. The magnitude error eis inputted to the multiplier  that multiplies eby a relatively small positive number \u03bcproviding the output  equal to \u03bcethe input of the adder . The output of the adder \u03b1is inputted to the delay . The output  \u03b1of the delay  is inputted to the adder  that provides the output  \u03b1according to\n\n\u03b1=\u03b1+\u03bc;|=1,2, . . . ;\u03b1=1\u2003\u2003(16)\n","The output  \u03b1of the adder  is inputted to the up sampler block  that increases the sampling rate by a factor nusing sample hold. The output  \u03b1of the sampler block  is inputted to the multiplier  that adjusts the channel gain estimate Gby aproviding the output  Gto the divider .","Referring to , the noisy channel output  zis input to delay block  that introduces a delay of Nsamples that is the number of samples required to provide a good initial estimate of Gand may be selected equal to 50. The output of the delay block  is input to the divider  that normalizes the delay block output  by the modified channel gain  Gproviding the normalized channel output  z; k+K=0, 1, . . . , with K= \u2212N.","The parameter \u03b1matches the amplitude of the real and imaginary components of the normalized channel output to the threshold levels of the slicers in the decision device, thereby also making the probability distribution of the detected data symbols aequal to the probability distribution of the data symbols a. This can also be achieved in an alternative embodiment of the invention by making the dominant center element hof the normalized channel impulse response  equal to 1. For the case when both the data symbols and the channel impulse response vector are real valued, the parameter \u03b1may be estimated in terms of the channel dispersion defined as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"d","mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]}},"mn":"2"}]}}},{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}}}}},"Thus for the normalized channel with \u2225 \u2225=1, the estimate of the magnitude of \u03b1in terms of the channel dispersion d is given by\n\n\u03b1=\u221a{square root over ((1))}\u2003\u2003(18)\n","For the case of weakly dispersive channels wherein d is much smaller compared to 1, \u03b1may be estimated to be 1. For the case of data symbols having constant amplitude as is the case, for example, with MPSK modulation the parameter \u03b1may also be set to 1. In the more general case of the complex valued data symbols with non constant amplitude, in alternative embodiments of the invention, the parameter may be estimated adaptively so as to make the dominant element of the normalized channel impulse response approach 1. An algorithm that minimizes the difference between the dominant element hand 1 is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","a"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"h","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","mi":"k"}},{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]}]},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]},{"mover":{"mi":"h","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mo":"*"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"},"mo":[",",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["a ","o "]},"In various embodiments of the invention, the equalizer filter in the equalizer filter block may be a linear, a decision feedback or a more general nonlinear equalizer filter based on the equalizer parameter vector that provides the linear estimate of the data symbol on the basis of the normalized channel output z.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["60","9","8","401","402","402","403","403","406","405","403","402","406","407","403","407","408","10","408","10","11","12","11"],"sub":["k+K",{"sub2":"1 "},"1 ","k+K",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+K",{"sub2":"1"},"\u22121","k\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},"+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"1","N","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","1","N ","k ","k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1"}],"o":"\u0175","sup":"d"},"The selection of the decision function \u0394( ) depends upon the probability distribution of the data symbols a=a+j a, with j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)}, and with aand adenoting the real and imaginary components of a. For example, for the case of the discrete type of the probability distribution of the data symbols awith both the real and imaginary components aand aof ataking possible values from the finite sets \u03a3and \u03a3respectively and where the components aand aare statistically independent as is the case, for example, for the MQAM modulated signals, the decision function may be given by (20).\n\n()=()+()\u2003\u2003(20)\n","In (20) the functions \u0394( ) and \u0394( ) may be the slicer functions. For the specific case when both the sets \u03a3and \u03a3are equal to the set {\u00b11, \u00b13, . . . , \u00b1(N\u22121)} Afor some integer N and positive real number A, the two slicer functions \u0394(x) and \u0394(x) with x real, are identical and are given by (21).\n\n()=()=(||)()\u2003\u2003(21)\n","In (21), sgn(x) is the signum function given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sgn","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"+","mn":"1"},{"mi":"x","mo":">","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2264","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}}}}},"And the function D(|x|) is given by\n\n(||)=1,22\u2003\u2003(23)\n","In (23), Vfor i=0, 1, . . . , N\/2 are the threshold levels given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"V","msub":{"mi":["t","i"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":";","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"iA","mn":"0"}},{"mn":"0","mo":["<","<"],"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}],"mo":";"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u221e","mo":";","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]}}}}},"The decision function described by (20) (24), for example, applies to the case where ais obtained as a result of MQAM modulation in the digital communication system of , with the number of points in the signal constellation M=N. For other modulation schemes and different probability distributions of the data symbol, other appropriate decision functions may be employed. For the specific case of M=4 corresponding to the QPSK modulation, the decision function in (20) reduces to\n\n()=()+()\u2003\u2003(25)\n","For the case of MPSK modulation with M>4, the decision device may comprise of a normalizer that normalizes the complex data symbol by its magnitude with the normalized data symbol operated by the decision function in (20)-(24).","Referring to , the linear estimate  \u00e2is subtracted from  aby the adder  providing the error signal  e=(a\u2212\u00e2. The error signal  eis input to the conjugate block . The output of the conjugate block  e* is multiplied by a positive scalar  \u03bcin the multiplier . The output of the multiplier  is input to the N weight correction multipliers  wcm, . . . , wcmwherein it multiplies the normalized channel output zand its various delayed versions  z, . . . , zgenerating the N components  of \u03bc with the first correction vector given by (26).\n\n= *; ];\u2003\u2003(26a)\n\n();0,1,\u2003\u2003(26b)\n","Referring to , the second parameter correction vector  generated by the MEECGS for LEQ block  is multiplied by a positive scalar  \u03bc by the multiplier . The multiplier output  is connected to the vector to scalar converter  that provides the N components  of the vector \u03bc given \u03bcw, . . . , \u03bcw, . . . , \u03bcwat the output of the vector to scalar converter . The outputs  of the wcm, . . . , wcmmultipliers  and the N components  of the vector \u03bc are both input to N adders  wca, . . . , wca. Referring to , the equalizer parameter components \u0175, . . . , \u0175, \u0175at the outputs of the N delay elements  are input to the wca adders . The wca adders  add the equalizer parameter components  \u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175to the outputs  of the wcm, . . . , wcmmultipliers and subtract the N components  of the vector \u03bc from the results of the addition providing the updated version of the N components  of the equalizer parameter vector at the outputs of the N wca adders . The output  of the N wca adders  are connected to the N delay elements . The outputs  of the N delay elements  are equal to the equalizer parameter vector components  \u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175that are inputted to the N conjugate blocks .","Referring to , the detected symbol  ais inputted to the channel estimator . The normalized channel output  zis input to the delay block  that introduces a delay of Ksamples providing the delayed version  zto the input of the channel estimator . The channel estimator  provides the estimate of the channel impulse response vector  at the output of the channel estimator. The equalizer parameters  \u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175are input to the scalar to vector converter  that provides the equalizer vector  to the correction signal generator for LEQ . The estimate of the channel impulse response vector  is input to the correction signal generator  that provides the second correction signal vector  to the multiplier . The correction signal generator  convolves the estimate of the channel impulse response vector  ; with the equalizer parameter vector  to obtain the convolved vector . The difference between the vector obtained by convolving the estimate of the channel impulse response vector with the equalizer parameter vector , and the ideal impulse response vector",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}],"mo":","},"mi":"T"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"1"},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}}}]}}}}}},"br":{},"b":["9","452","452","16"],"o":["\u011d","\u0175","\u03b4","\u011d","w","\u0175"],"sub":["k","k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",K",{"sub2":"1"},"k","k","k+1 "],"sup":["T ","c",{"sub2":"2 "},"c",{"sub2":"2 "}]},"The equalizer parameter update algorithm implemented in  may be described by (27a, b)\n\n+\u03bc;\u2003\u2003(27a)\n\n( )*;0,1,\u2003\u200327b)\n","The first correction signal vector may be based on the minimization of the stochastic function |a\u2212  |with respect to the parameter vector  and is equal to 0.5 times the negative of the gradient of the stochastic function with respect to . In the absence of the second correction signal vector, the update algorithm in (27a) reduces to the decision directed version of the LMS algorithm.","In various other embodiments of the invention, the first correction signal vector may be derived on the basis of the optimization of the objective function in (28)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["J","k","d"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03bb","d"],"mrow":{"mi":["k","n"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mi":"H"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03c8","_"]},"mi":"n"}},"mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["a","d"],"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":";"},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c8","n"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":["+","-"],"msub":[{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}]}}],"mo":[",","\u2062",",",",","\u2062",","],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}},"mi":"T"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"28"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"o":["w","\u03c8","\u03c8","\u03c8","\u03c8","\u03c8","\u03c8"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"\u0175"},"= ","R","a","\u2212 ","R","[R","\u2212R","R","R","];k="],"sub":["k+1","k","d","k","k","k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"d","k","k","k","k\u22121","k\u22121","k","k","k\u22121","k","k","k\u22121"],"sup":["H","\u2212","H","\u22121","H"]},"In (29b) the matrix Rat time k=0 may be initialized by a diagonal matrix \u03b5Ifor some small positive scalar \u03b5with Idenoting the (N\u00d7N) identity matrix. Based on the optimization of the function J, the first correction signal vector in (27b) may be modified to arrive at the alternative equalizer parameter vector update algorithm in (30)\n\n+\u03bc\u2003\u2003(30a)\n\n ({circumflex over (\u03c8)})*;0,1,\u2003\u2003(30b)\n\nWith Rin (30b) updated according to (29b). The algorithm in (30) may result in a faster convergence compared to that in (27).\n","In various other embodiments of the invention the first correction signal vector may be based on the one of the quantized state algorithms such as the QS1 algorithm given by\n\n ( )*\u2003\u2003(31a)\n\n=\u03bb (  +\u03bb) 0,1,\u2003\u2003(31b)\n\nThe vector , is obtained by replacing both the real and imaginary components of the various components of the vector with the 1 bit quantized versions. The icomponent of is given by (31c).\n\n\u03c8((\u03c8))+((\u03c8));=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)};i=\u2212N, . . . , 0\u2003\u2003(31c)\n\nIn (31c) sgn(x) for x real is the signum function defined in (22), and Re(z) and Im(z) denote the real and imaginary components of z for any complex variable z.\n","Referring to , the output z, for any integer k, of the channel gain normalizer block  in  may be expressed as\n\n;\u2003\u2003(32)\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["y","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["h","i"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["k","i"],"mo":"-"}}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"},"mo":[",",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"32","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","1","1","k","k ","1,k "],"o":["h","h","\u0125","h"],"sup":["c ","m "],"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":",","mi":"k"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mi":["k","m"],"mo":"-"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","m"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"H"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"}}}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mo":";"},{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},"mo":[",",","],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u2026","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["a","m"]}},{"mi":"\u2026","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},"mi":"T"},"mo":";","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"}},"mo":[",",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"33"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"1,k ","o":"h"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":",","mi":"k"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":["h","_"]}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mi":["k","m"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"},{"mi":["z","m"]}]}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mi":["k","m"],"mo":"-"}},{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"H"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"},"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":["m","H"]}}}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"34"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"h","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","k"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mi":["k","m"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"},"msubsup":{"mi":["z","m"],"mo":"*"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"35","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","k"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"P","mrow":[{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mi":["k","m"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":"m"},"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mi":["m","H"]}}}}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"35","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}]}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":["\u22121","k","k\u22121","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k\u22121","k","k","k\u22121","k\u22121","k","K","k01","k","k","k\u22121","\u22121 ","\u22121","\u22121 "],"sup":["\u22121","H","\u22121","H","\u22121","H","T "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"\u0125"},"= ","+P",{"o":"x"},"e","*;e","z","\u2212{circumflex over (z)}","{circumflex over (z)}","= ",{"o":"x"},"P","[P","\u2212P",{"o":"x"},{"o":"x"},"P",{"o":"x"},{"o":"x"},"P","];k="],"o":["\u0125","\u0125","h"]},"In an alternative embodiment of the invention, an exponentially data weighted Kalman filter algorithm may be used. The Kalman filter minimizes the conditional error variance in the estimate of the channel impulse response given by E[\u2225 \u2212 \u2225\/z, z, . . . , z], where E denotes the expected value operator. The exponentially data weighted Kalman filter algorithm is given by\n\n()*\u2003\u2003(37a)\n\n()\u2003\u2003(37b)\n\n=\u03bb()]\u2003\u2003(37c)\n\nThe equations (37a)-(37c) may be initialized at k=0 with similar initialization as for the RLS algorithm of (36). Equations (37a) and (37b) may be combined into the following equivalent form\n\n()\u2003\u2003(37d)\n\nIn equations (37b)-(37d), rr=2\u03c3denotes the variance of the noise nin (32a) equal to the noise nnormalized by the modified channel gain G.\n","In another embodiment of the invention, one of the class of quantized state algorithms may be used for the estimation of . The quantized state algorithms possess advantages in terms of the computational requirements. For example, the quantized state QS1 algorithm is given by\n\n()*\u2003\u2003(38a)\n\n=\u03bb(+\u03bb)0,1\u2003\u2003(38b)\n\nwhere in (38) is obtained from  by replacing both the real and imaginary components of each component of  by their respective signs taking values +1 or \u22121. Multiplication of by the matrix Pin (38b) requires only additions instead of both additions and multiplications, thus significantly reducing the computational requirements.\n\nReferring to , in the blind mode equalizer system , the channel input aappearing in the state vector in (34)-(38) is replaced by the detected symbol a. The state vector in the equations (34)-(38) is replaced by its estimate given by\n\n]\u2003\u2003(39)\n\nThe resulting modified RLS algorithm is given by\n\n()*\u2003\u2003(40a)\n\n=\u03bb(\u03bb+)0,1,\u2003\u2003(40b)\n","In one of the various preferred embodiments of the invention, the modified RLS algorithm (40a)-(40b) is used for the estimation of the channel impulse response . In various alternative embodiments the Kalman filter algorithms in (37) or the quantized state algorithm in (38) with the state vector replaced with the estimate may be used for the estimation of the channel impulse response .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["440","12","11","510","512","512","514","514","518","516","517","514","514","575","576","576","436","576","578","579","579","580","581","580","583","584","583","526","548","560","526","518"],"sub":["k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"1 ","1 ","k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"\u22121","k\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"k\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"1 ","k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"1","M","\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},",k\u22121","0,k\u22121","M",{"sub2":"1"},",k\u22121 ","k\u22121 ","k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},"\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},",k\u22121","0,k\u22121","M",{"sub2":"1"},",k\u22121 ","k\u22121","k ","k ","k ","k ","k","k","k ","k","h ","1","N ","k","\u2212M",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","M",{"sub2":"1"},",k ","k ","1","M ","1","M"],"sup":["d ","d","d ","d ","d","d ","d","d ","h","h ","h"],"o":["\u0125","\u0125"]},"Referring to , the M hca adders  are inputted with the M components \u0125, . . . , \u0125, . . . , \u0125of the channel impulse response vector at the outputs of the M delay elements  and with the outputs  of the M hcm multipliers . The hca adders  add the M channel impulse response vector components \u0125, . . . , \u0125, . . . , \u0125to the corresponding M outputs  of the hcm, . . . , hcmmultipliers  providing the updated version of the M components of the channel impulse response vector at the outputs of the M hca adders . The outputs  of the M hca adders  are connected to the inputs of the M delay elements  with the outputs of the delay elements connected to the M conjugate blocks . The estimate of the channel impulse response vector may be initialized at k=\u22121 by the vector =[0 . . . 010 . . . 0].","Referring to , the detected symbol  aand its various delayed versions  a, . . . ,aare input to the scalar to vector converter  providing the channel state vector  =[a, . . . ,a]at the output of the scalar to vector converter . Referring to , the channel state vector  is input to the gain update block  that provides the gain vector  K(k) to the vector to scalar converter . Referring to , the channel state vector  and the matrix  Pare input to the matrix Pupdate block  that evaluates the updated matrix  Paccording to equation (36b) and provides the updated matrix  Pto the delay . The output  of the delay  equal to Pis inputted to the matrix Pupdate block . The matrix Pupdate block  is initialized with input  P=\u03b5I, where \u03b5 is some positive number and Iis the M\u00d7M identity matrix. The matrix  Pand the channel state vector  are input to the matrix multiplier  that provides the gain vector  K=P at the output. The gain vector  Kis inputted to the vector to scalar converter .","With the channel impulse response vector =[h. . . hhh. . . h] of length M=2M+1, and =[w, . . . w, w, w, . . . , w] of length N=2N+1, the composite system comprised of the cascade of the channel and the equalizer has an impulse response of length K=N+M\u22121 with K=2K+1, K=N+M\u22121\n\n]\u2003\u2003(41)\n\nThe elements of the vector k are obtained by the discrete convolution of the sequences {h. . . , h, h, h, . . . , h} and {w, . . . , w, w, w, . . . , w}. For simplicity of notations, the sequences are also represented as vectors  and  respectively with the similar notations for the other sequences. The convolution operation can also be expressed in the following matrix vector form\n\n\u2003\u2003(42)\n\nWith N>Mas is usually the case, the K\u00d7N matrix H in (42) may be written in the following partitioned form\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"H","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"1"}},{"msub":{"mi":"O","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["N","M"],"mo":"-"}}}}}]}}}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"3"}}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"O","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["N","M"],"mo":"-"}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"2"}}]}}}}]}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"43"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"M\u00d7(N\u2212M) "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"44","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.7em","height":"1.7ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.9em","height":"1.9ex"}}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"44","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mover":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"mover":{"mi":"\ufe37","mrow":{"mi":["N","M"],"mo":["-","-"],"mn":"1"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mi":["N","M"],"mo":["-","-"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"44","mo":"\u2062","mi":"c"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"H","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]}}}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]}]}}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mn":"0"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}}}]}}}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}]}]}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"44","mo":"\u2062","mi":"d"}}}]}]}}}},"The matrix H in (44d) can be appropriately modified for the case of N<M. For the case of known channel impulse response , the equalizer parameter vector  can be selected so that the impulse response of the composite system given by (42) is equal to which is defined for any pair of positive integers K, K\u2032 as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["K","\u2032"],"mn":"1"}}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"1"},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msubsup":{"mi":["K","\u2032"],"mn":"1"}}}}]}}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"45"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"o":["w","\u03b4","\u03b4","\u03b4","w","g","\u03b4"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"w"},"J","=\u2225H \u2212 \u2225"],"sup":"\u22121","sub":["K",{"sub2":"1"},",K",{"sub2":"1"},"L",{"sub2":"i "},"L",{"sub2":"i"},"L",{"sub2":"i"},"L",{"sub2":"i "},"i ","1 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["j ","\u221e"],"o":"\u03b4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"munder":{"mi":["max","j"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mo":"."}}}},"br":{},"sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":"L","mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}},"mo":"-","mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]}}},"mi":"j"}},"mn":"2"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"="}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"48"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["J","H ","H ","J","\/\u2202 =H","H ",{"o":"\u0175"},"= ","\u2212\u03bcH",{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},"=H ",";k="],"sub":["2","2 ","2","2 ","k+1","k","k","k","k","0","0 ","N",{"sub2":"1"},",N",{"sub2":"1 "},"1"],"o":["\u03b4","\u03b4","w","\u03b4","\u03b4","\u0175","\u0175","\u03b4"],"sup":["H","T","T"]},"More generally the optimization function may be selected as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"1"},{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":"L","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"2"},{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":"L","mn":"4"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"4"}}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"52"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 ","L",{"sub2":"2 "},"L",{"sub2":"4 "},"L",{"sub2":"4 "},"i "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":"L","mn":"4"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"*"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["g","j"]}},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}]}}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["H","ji"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"*"}]}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"53"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["L",{"sub2":"4 "}],"o":"w"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":"L","mn":"4"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}}]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["H","T"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":[{"mi":["g","_"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u2022","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":[{"mi":["g","_"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mo":"*"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mi":["H","T"]},{"mover":{"mi":["g","_"]},"mi":"c"}]}],"mo":"\u2261"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"54"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sup":["th ","th ","T","2","T","2"],"o":["x","x","x","x","x","\u03b4","\u03b4","1","\u03b4","1","\u011d"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"\u0175"},"= ","\u2212\u03bcH",{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},"=H ",{"o":"\u0175"},"= ","\u2212\u03bcH",{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"\u011d"},"=H ",";k="],"sub":["k+1","k","k","k","k","k","k","k+1","k","k","k","k","k","k"]},"In one of the various embodiments of the BMAEHS equalizer of the invention, the second correction signal vector is selected as\n\n{[ +\u03ba|(]\u25a1(\u2212 )*};0,1,\u2003\u2003(56)\n\nIn (56) \u0124is given by (44d) with hreplaced by its estimate \u0125for i=\u2212M, . . . , 0, . . . , M. In various other embodiments of the invention, the second correction signal vector may be obtained from the optimization of the lin (52) and given by\n\n[(\u2212 )+\u03ba|(\u2212 )|\u25a1(\u2212 )*];0,1\u2003\u2003(57)\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["450","452","442","450","442","620","622","622","432","624","626","626","610","630","632","635","638","635","640","622","642","644","644","640","644","638","452"],"o":["\u0175","\u0125","\u0125","\u0175","\u011d","\u0175","\u011d","\u03b4","\u011d","{circumflex over (\u03b4)}","\u011d","\u03b4","w"],"sub":["k","k ","k ","k ","k ","i ","i","1","1","k ","k ","k","k","k ","k ","K",{"sub2":"1"},",K",{"sub2":"1"},"k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",K",{"sub2":"1"},"k ","k","k","k","k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",K",{"sub2":"1"},"k"],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"2 "},"T ","T ","T ","c",{"sub2":"2 "}]},"From the definition of the matrix H in (44), the vector in (51) and (55) can also be obtained by the convolution of the channel impulse response  with the equalizer parameter vector . Similarly the pre multiplication by Hin (51) can be evaluated by the convolution of with ( \u2212 ) and discarding (2M\u22122) elements from the resulting vector of size K+M\u22121=N+2M\u22122, more specifically (M\u22121) elements are discarded from each end of the resulting vector, where is the vector obtained by reversing the order of the elements in , i.e.,\n\n]\u2003\u2003(58)\n\nAn equivalent form for the update of the equalizer parameter vector is given by\n\n = [  \u2212 ]*}\u2003\u2003(59a)\n\n = *  }+\u03bc 0,1,\u2003\u2003(59b)\n\nIn (59) the operator Tr denotes the truncation of the vector to length N by deleting (M\u22121) elements from each side of the vector appearing in its argument. In (59b) is the vector obtained from . by appending (N\u2212M) zeros to each side of with =[0 . . . 0 0 . . . 0]. Similarly the convolution version of the algorithm in (55) is given by\n\n = [( \u2212 )*+\u03ba ]}\u2003\u2003(60a)\n\n =  ; =|( \u2212 )|\u25a1( \u2212 )*;0,1,\u2003\u2003(60b)\n\nIn various alternative embodiments of the invention, second correction signal vector may be generated by (61) as\n\n =Tr{ [( \u2212 )*+\u03ba ]};\u2003\u2003(61a)\n\n =  ; =|( \u2212 )|\u25a1( \u2212 )*;0,1,\u2003\u2003(61b)\n\nIn (61a) is obtained from (58) after replacing hwith \u0125for i=M, . . . , 0, M.\n","In order to minimize the impact of the equalizer on the input noise variance 2 \u03c3, a term proportional to \u2225 \u2225may be added to the optimization function in (52) with the resulting objective function given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027","num":"00027"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"4"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"3"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mn":"2","msup":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}},"mn":"2"}]}],"mo":["+","+"]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"62"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":["2","2 "],"o":"w","sub":["3 ","s"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00028","num":"00028"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","I"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["I","s"]}},"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["a","k"]}},"mn":"2"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"63"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00029","num":"00029"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","t"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["I","s"]}},"mn":"2"}}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}},"mn":"2"}]}],"mo":"+"},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["a","k"]}},"mn":"2"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["g","j"]},{"mi":["\u03b4","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}},"mn":"2"}]}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"64"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["t","1 ","3 ","1","k","3","k\u22121","k","k","k","0","k","k","k","k","k","0 ","0","3","k","k","k","k","k","0","k","k ","k"],"sup":["2","2","I","c","c","2","c",{"sub2":"2 "},"c",{"sub2":"2"},"I","c","c "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"o":["{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","\u03b4","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}",{"@attributes":{"ostyle":"single"},"i":"h"},"\u0175","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","\u03b4","{circumflex over ()}","\u03b4","w","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","\u03b4","{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","\u011d","\u011d"],"i":["\u2212\u03bcTr{ ",{"o":"\u011d"},"k="],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00014","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US08711919-20140429-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00015","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US08711919-20140429-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00016","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US08711919-20140429-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"The convolution operation in the iterative algorithms (59), (60) and (65) can be performed equivalently in terms of the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) or the fast Fourier transform (FFT) operations. The FFT operation results in a circular convolution, hence for proper convolution operation the individual vectors to be convolved are zero padded with an appropriate number of zeros. Also the FFT of can be related to the FFT of  if a zero is appended at the beginning of the vector . Therefore, a vector of length (N+M+2) is defined by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00030","num":"00030"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"e"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","\u2062","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"h","mn":"0"},{"mi":"h","mn":"1"},{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"],"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"T"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"67"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":"\u0175","sub":"k","sup":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00031","num":"00031"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":["k","e"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}}},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mn":"0"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mn":"1"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"],"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"+","mn":"2"}}}}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"68"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"o":["\u0175",{"@attributes":{"ostyle":"single"},"i":"h"},{"@attributes":{"ostyle":"single"},"i":"h"},"{circumflex over ()}","{circumflex over ()}","\u03be","\u03be","\u0393"],"sub":["k","k","k","N","N "],"sup":["e","eF","e","eF","e","F"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["=F","=F"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00032","num":"00032"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","N"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":["0","1"],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":["1","0"],"mo":","}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":["1","1"],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":",","mn":"0"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":",","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":","}}}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"70","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mi":["m","n"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"j2"},{"mi":["mn","N"],"mo":"\/"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":"\u03c0"}}}},{"mi":"j","mo":"=","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":[";",";"],"mi":"m"},{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":[",",",",",","\u2062",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"70","mo":"\u2062","mi":"c"}}}]}]}}}},"The discrete Fourier transform in (70) can be implemented by the fast Fourier transform algorithm resulting in significant reduction in the number of required arithmetic operations. Defining\n\n = \u25a1 \u2003\u2003(71)\n\nwith \u25a1 denoting the component wise multiplication, then the inverse discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) of is given by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00033","num":"00033"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["g","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":["k","eF"]}}},{"msubsup":[{"mi":"\u0393","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"+","mn":"3"}},"mo":"*"},{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["g","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":["k","eF"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","00"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"g","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}},{"mover":{"mi":"g","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mover":{"mi":"g","mo":"^"},"mn":"0"},{"mover":{"mi":"g","mo":"^"},"mn":"1"},{"mover":{"mi":"g","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"}}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"]}},"mi":"T"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","00"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["g","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":"k"}}},"mi":"T"}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"72"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":"h","sup":"eF"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00034","num":"00034"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"eF"}},"mo":"*"}}},{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"+","mn":"2"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"h","mn":"1"},{"mi":"h","mn":"0"},{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"]}},"mi":"H"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"+","mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"I"}},"mi":"H"}}},"mi":"T"}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"73"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":["\u011d","h"],"sub":"k","sup":["eF ","eF"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00035","num":"00035"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":"pe"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"eF"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"eF"}},"mo":"*"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u2022","\u2022"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":["k","eF"]}}}}},"mo":"*"}],"mo":["\u2261","\u2062"],"mi":{}},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},"mi":"p"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"p"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mn":"0","mi":"p"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"mn":"1","mi":"p"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},"mi":"p"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"],"munder":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["**","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mi":"\u2026"},"mo":["\u2062","*"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"+","mn":"2"}}}}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"74"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"o":["h","\u0175","h",{"@attributes":{"ostyle":"single"},"i":"h"},"{circumflex over ()}",{"@attributes":{"ostyle":"single"},"i":"h"}],"sub":["k","1","k","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},"0","N",{"sub2":"1"},"1 "],"sup":["I ","I","p","P","P","T"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["Tr","w",". . . \u0175",". . . \u0175"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00017","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US08711919-20140429-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00018","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US08711919-20140429-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00036","num":"00036"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":"k"},"mo":["-","+","-"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"Tr","mn":"2"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":["k","eF"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u2022","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"eF"}},"mn":"2"}}}}},"mo":"*"}},{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"Ie"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mo":"^"},"mi":"k","mo":"*"}}]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"where"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"76"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"Ie"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"munder":[{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"h","mn":"1"},{"mi":"h","mn":"0"},{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["\u2026","\u2026"]}},"mi":"T"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"77"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["2 ","1","1"],"o":["h","h"],"sup":"Ie "},"For the more general case of \u03ba\u22600 the parameter update algorithm is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00037","num":"00037"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"},"mo":["-","-"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"Tr","mn":"2"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mi":"eF"}},"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u2022","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","eF"]},"mo":["-","+"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mi":"F"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03ba","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","cF"]}}}}}}}}},"mo":"*"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"*"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"78","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":["\u011d","\u03b4","\u03b4"],"sub":["k","K",{"sub2":"1"},"+1",{"sub2":"1"},"+3 "],"sup":["eF ","F "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00038","num":"00038"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"},{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"3"}],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"1"},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"3"}}}}]}}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"78","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","K ","k","k","k"],"sup":["th ","cF ","cT","H","c",{"sub2":"2 "}],"o":["\u011d","\u011d","w"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00039","num":"00039"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"Tr","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"eF"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"h","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"eF"}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u2022"}}}},"mo":"*"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"0"},"mo":"\/","mi":"\u03bc"}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"*"}}],"mo":["-","+"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"h","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","Ie"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"79"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":["\u0125","h","\u0125","\u0125"],"sup":["eF ","e ","e","Ie "],"sub":["k","k","i ","i,k ","1","1","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["450","432","710","712","712","720","720","712","714","735","736","442","724","726","730","727","728","730","731","730","732","733","732","736","737","740","740","737","749","740"],"o":["\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","\u0125"],"sub":["k ","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","N",{"sub2":"1"},",k ","k ","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","N",{"sub2":"1"},",k ","0,k","k+2,k","1","K+3","k ","0,k","K+2","1","K+3","1","K+3 ","1","K+3","i ","i,k","i,k"],"sup":["eF","eF ","eF","eF ","th ","eF ","eF","2 ","th "]},"Referring to , the first  (N\u2212M) and the last  (N\u2212M) of the remaining N outputs of the IFFT block  denoted by \u0175, . . . , \u0175, \u0175, . . . , \u0175are inputted to the respective 2(N\u2212M) inputs of the scalar to vector converter . The M components  of the IFFT block \u0175, . . . , \u0175are inputted to the inputs of the M fta adders  fta, . . . , ftathat subtract the complex conjugate  of the  \u0125, . . . , \u0125, . . . , \u0125respectively provided by the conjugate block  from the inputs  provided by the IFFT block  by the adders . The outputs  \u0125. . . . , \u0125, . . . \u0125of the vector to scalar converter  are provided to the conjugate block . Referring to , the outputs of the M fta adders are inputted to the scalar to vector converter  that provides the vector ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00040","num":"00040"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","msup":{"mi":"pc","mo":"*"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Tr","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"F","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","eF"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u2022","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"h","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"eF"}},"mn":"2"}}}}},"mo":"-","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"h","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","msup":{"mi":"Ie","mo":"*"}}}}}},"br":{},"b":["762","764","762","780","766","764","452","432","765","452","16"],"o":["\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","w","\u0175","w"],"sub":["k","0","k","k","k","k ","k","0 "],"sup":["pc ","pc ","c",{"sub2":"2"},"c",{"sub2":"2 "}],"figref":"FIG. 6"},"In one of the various alternative embodiments of the invention, the equalizer filter  in the BMAEHS  of  may be selected as the decision feedback equalizer (DFE) filter. In the decision feedback equalizer some of the components of the equalizer state vector are replaced by the detected symbols that are available at the instance of detecting the present symbol a. The equalizer parameter vector update algorithm is given by\n\n+\u03bc;\u2003\u2003(80a)\n\n= ) )*;\u2003\u2003(80b)\n\n ]0,1,\u2003\u2003(80c)\n\nIn (80) the dimension N of the equalizer parameter vector is given by N=N+N+1 with Ndenoting the number of components of the equalizer parameter state vector that are equal to the previous detected symbols. The second correction signal vector in (80a) is generated so as to minimize the modeling error in the equalizer and minimizes the norm of the vector that is equal to the difference between the impulse response vector of the cascade of the channel and the equalizer and the vector =[ . . .  . . . ]of appropriate dimension. An expression for the impulse response is obtained by first splitting the equalizer parameter vector as\n\n]\u2003\u2003(81a)\n\n]]\u2003\u2003(81b)\n","For relatively low probability of error in the detection of a=afor most of the times and the impulse response vector of the cascade of the channel and the equalizer may be approximated by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00041","num":"00041"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","m"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"+"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"e"}}],"mo":"+"}},{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":"H","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"+"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":[";",";"]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"82","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"e"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"T"}}}]}}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"82","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["k","1","1","i ","i,k ","1","1 "],"sup":["+","+","+","+"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0147"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00042","num":"00042"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"1","mo":"+"}}},{"mtd":{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"2","mo":"+"}}},{"mtd":{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"3","mo":"+"}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"83","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"1","mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}]}]}}},"mo":";"},{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"2","mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"1"},"mn":"1"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":["h","M"]}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}}]}]}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"83","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"H","mn":"3","mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"1"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"1"}],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"2"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"h","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"83","mo":"\u2062","mi":"c"}}}]}]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["1 ","1","1 ","1","2 ","1","k","k","k","k","L",{"sub2":"2 "},"L",{"sub2":"2"},"k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",N",{"sub2":"2"},"k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",N",{"sub2":"2"},"k"],"sup":["+","+","c",{"sub2":"2 "},"m","+","\u2212","c","H","c","c "],"o":["h","h","\u011d","\u011d","\u03b4","\u0175","\u0175","w"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["J","H",{"o":["w","\u03b4"]},"H",{"o":["w","\u03b4"]}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00043","num":"00043"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["H","k","c"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["H","k"],"mo":"+"}},{"mi":"\u22ee"},{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"O","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u00d7","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"I","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}}]}}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"84","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["(K",{"sub2":"1"},"+1)\u00d7M",{"sub2":"1 "},"1","l ","M",{"sub2":"1 "},"1","1","k","k","k","k","k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",N",{"sub2":"2"}],"o":["w","\u03b4"],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"2 "},"c",{"sub2":"2"},"cH","c"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":[{"o":"\u0175"},"=\u0124","\u0124",{"o":"\u0175"}]},"With the application of (84b), the second correction signal vector may be written in the equivalent form in (86).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00044","num":"00044"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mi":"k","msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msubsup":{"mi":["H","k"],"msup":{"mo":"+","mi":"H"}}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mtd":{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"O","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"I","msub":{"mi":"M","mn":"1"}}}]}}}}]}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","m"]},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}}},"mo":"*"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"86","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","m"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["H","k"],"mo":"+"},{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"e"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"86","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}]}}},"br":{},"o":"\u011d","sub":"k","sup":"m "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0151"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00045","num":"00045"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","m"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"m"}}},"mi":"T"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"m"}}},"mi":"T"}],"mo":"\u2062"}},"mi":"T"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"86","mo":"\u2062","mi":"c"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mi":"k","msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["H","k"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mi":"T"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","m"]},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"g","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"m"}}}}]}},"mo":"*"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"86","mo":"\u2062","mi":"d"}}}]}]}}},"br":{},"o":["\u011d","\u011d"],"sub":["k","k","1","2 "],"sup":["1m ","2m "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0152"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1","FIG. 10"],"b":["60","8","801","802","8","802","803","803","815","804","816","805","803","802","806","807","803","807","808","809","808","809","11","12"],"i":"z","sub":["k+K",{"sub2":"1 "},"1 ","k+K",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+K",{"sub2":"1"},"\u22121","k+K",{"sub2":"1"},"\u2212N",{"sub2":"1 "},"1 ","1","1","N",{"sub2":"1"},"+1","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","N",{"sub2":"2"},",k","k","1","1 ","1 ","k ","1","k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1"}],"o":["\u0175","\u0175"],"sup":"d "},"Referring to , the detected symbol  ais input to the cascade of Ndelays  providing the Ndelayed versions  of adenoted by a, . . . ,aat their respective outputs. The Ndelayed versions  of aare input to the Nwm multipliers  wm, . . . ,wmand are multiplied by complex conjugates  of the last Ncomponents  of the equalizer parameter vector \u0175, . . . , \u0175in the Nwm multipliers  generating the respective products  at the outputs of the Nwm multipliers. The outputs  of the Nwm multipliers  are input to the summer  that provides the linear estimate  \u00e2of the data symbol at the output. The components ,  z, . . . , z, d, . . . , aof the state vector are inputted to the wcm multipliers  wcm, . . . , wcmthat multiply the components of by \u03bce* with the outputs of the multipliers constituting the components  of the vector \u03bc made available to the N wca adders  wca, . . . , wca. Referring to , the linear estimate  aand the detected symbol  aare inputted to the adder  that provides the error signal  e=(a\u2212\u00e2) to the input of the conjugate block . The output  of the conjugate block  is multiplied by the scalar \u03bcin the multiplier  with the output  inputted to the N wcm multipliers  wcm, . . . , wcm.","Referring to , the detected symbol  ais inputted to the channel estimator . The normalized channel output  zis input to the delay block  that introduces a delay of Ksamples providing the delayed version  zto the input of the channel estimator . The channel estimator  provides the estimate of the channel impulse response vector  at the output of the channel estimator. The equalizer parameters  \u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175are input to the scalar to vector converter  that provides the equalizer vector  to the correction signal generator for DFE block . The estimate of the channel impulse response vector  is input to the correction signal generator for DFE block  that provides the second correction signal vector  to the multiplier . The correction signal generator for DFE  estimates the impulse response of the cascade of the channel and the equalizer. The difference between the vector and the ideal impulse response vector",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0155"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00046","num":"00046"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03b4","_"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":","},"mi":"T"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":"K","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}},{"mn":"1"},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mn":["00","0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"2"}}}}]}}}}}},"br":{},"o":"\u011d","sub":"k","sup":"mT "},"The correction signal generator block  generates the second correction signal  on the basis of the modeling error vector [ \u2212 ] and is given by (85)-(86). The second correction signal  is inputted to the adaptation block B for adjusting the equalizer parameter vector at time k+1. The decision feedback equalizer parameter algorithm implemented by the adaptation block B of  is described by (80). Referring to , the second correction signal  is multiplied by a positive scalar \u03bc providing the product to the vector to serial converter . The outputs \u0175, . . . , \u0175are inputted to the N wca adders . The outputs of the N wca adders  constituting the components of the updated equalizer parameter vector are inputted to the N delays . The outputs of the N delays  are inputted to the N conjugate blocks .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0157"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["850","442","860","861","841","864","865","866","861","865","867","868","867","868","870","871","872","875","870","871","880","872","1","873","874","880","880","883"],"o":["\u0125","\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","\u011d","\u0175","\u011d","\u011d","\u011d","\u03b4","\u011d","\u03b4"],"sub":["k ","k","k","i ","i ","1","1","k ","k","\u2212N",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","k","1,k","N",{"sub2":"2"},",k","2 ","1","k","k","k","k","k","k","\u2212K",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","N",{"sub2":"2"},",k","1 ","\u2212K",{"sub2":"1"},",k","\u22121,k","k","0,k","0,k","k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",0","k","\u2212K",{"sub2":"1"},",k","0,k","K",{"sub2":"1"},",0 ","1 "],"sup":["+","+","+","T ","\u2212","T ","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","+","1m","1m","+","+","T "]},"Referring to , the vector   is inputted to the vector to scalar converter  that provides the components  \u0175, . . . , \u0175at the output of the vector to scalar converter . The components  \u0175, . . . , \u0175and the components  \u011d, . . . , \u011d of the vector  are inputted to the adders  ga, . . . , ga. The Ngaadder , i=1, 2, . . . , Nprovides the sum  (\u011d+\u0175) at the adder output. The outputs  of the Nga adders  are input to the scalar to vector converter  that provides the vector  at the output. Referring to , the vectors ( \u2212 ) and are inputted to the vector concatenator  that concatenates the input vectors in to the vector  ( \u2212 )=[( \u2212 )( )]of size (K+N+1) at the output of the vector concatenator  and provides the result to the matrix multiplier . The matrix  \u0124, from the matrix \u0124 collator block is input to the transpose block  that provides the matrix  \u0124to the input of the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier  provides the product  \u0124( \u2212 ) at the matrix multiplier  output and makes the result available to the vector concatenator . The vector is inputted to the vector concatenator  that concatenates it with the vector \u0124( \u2212 ) providing the concatenated vector  to the conjugate block . The output  of the conjugate block  is equal to the second correction signal according to (86).","The convergence rate of the equalizer parameter vector update algorithm in (27) to (31) may be significantly increased by the application of the orthogonalization procedure In the orthogonalization procedure, the sequence of the correction signal vectors is modified such that in the modified sequence, the correction signal vectors at successive time instances k are nearly orthogonal resulting in increased convergence rate. In one of the various embodiments of the invention, the BMAEHS block of  is modified by an orthogonalizer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 1","FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["70","60","8","9","800","11","902","901","902","903","904","904","905","907","9","800","910","901","911","915","50","810","912","915","915","911","912","916","917","918","918","920","955","920"],"sub":["k+K",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k+M",{"sub2":"1 "},"k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k","k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k+M",{"sub2":"1"},"k ","k ","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","k","1","k","2","k","1 ","2"],"sup":["d ","d","d","c",{"sub2":"1 "},"c",{"sub2":"2 "},"1 ","2 ","2 ","1 ","1","2 ","1","2 ","1","2 "],"o":["\u03c8","w","w","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7","\u03c7"]},"Referring to , the orthogonalizer  provides the orthogonalized correction signal vector  Kat the output of the orthogonalizer evaluated according to equation (87a, b),\n\n  (  +\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(87a)\n\n=\u03bb (  +\u03bb) 0,1,\u2003\u2003(87b)\n","In (87b) the matrix Qmay be set equal to \u03b5Iwith \u03b5 equal to some positive scalar and Identing the N\u00d7N identity matrix. In (87b) \u03bbis an exponential data weighting coefficient with 0<\u03bb\u22661 and determines the rate at which the past values of  are discarded in the estimation of the matrix Qas with the application of the matrix inversion lemma, the matrix Qfor relatively large value of k may be interpreted as a positive scalar times an estimate of the covariance of , with Q\u2245((1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb))E[  ] where E denotes the expected value operator.","Referring to , the normalized correction signal vector  is input to the matrix multiplier  wherein  is pre multiplied by the matrix  Q. The matrix  Qis made available to the matrix multiplier  by the output of the delay . The output of the matrix multiplier  is input to the matrix multiplier . The normalized correction signal vector  is input to the conjugate transpose block  that provides the row vector  to the input of the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier  output  equal to Q is inputted to the matrix multiplier  and to the conjugate transpose block . The matrix multiplier  output  equal to Q is input to the adder  that adds the constant \u03bbto the input . The output  of the adder  equal to ( Q +\u03bb) is input to the inverter  that makes the result  equal to 1\/( Q +\u03bb) available to the input of the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier  output  equal to K=Q \/( Q +\u03bb)=Q constitutes the orthogonalized correction signal vector K. The output  of the matrix multiplier  and the output of transpose block  equal to Q1 are inputted to the matrix multiplier  that provides the matrix product  Q  Q\/( Q +\u03bb) at the output of the matrix multiplier . The outputs of the delay  and that of the matrix multiplier  are input to the adder  that provides the difference between the two inputs at the output of the adder. The output  of the adder  is normalized by the constant \u03bbin the multiplier . The output  of the multiplier  constitutes the updated matrix  Qthat is input to the delay . The output of the delay  equal to  Qis input to the multiplier .","Referring to , the normalized channel output  zis input to the delay block  that introduces a delay of Ksamples providing the delayed version  zto the input of the channel estimator . The detected symbol  afrom the output of the decision device  is made available to the channel estimator . The channel estimator  provides the estimate of the channel impulse response vector  at the output of the channel estimator and to the input of the correction signal generator (). In one of the various embodiments of the invention the equalizer filter () in  is the linear equalizer filter and the correction signal generator block is the same as the correction signal generator block for LEQ  of  for the BMAEHS with the linear equalizer. The correction signal generator  convolves the estimate of the channel impulse response vector  with the equalizer parameter vector  to obtain the convolved vector . The difference between the vector obtained by convolving the estimate of the channel impulse response vector with the equalizer parameter vector , and the ideal impulse response vector may provide a measure of the modeling error incurred by the equalizer. A large deviation of the convolved response from the ideal impulse response implies a relatively large modeling error. The correction signal generator block  generates the second correction signal vector  on the basis of the modeling error vector [ \u2212 ]. The second correction signal vector  is inputted to the correction signal vectors normalizer block .","In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the equalizer filter () in  is the decision feedback equalizer filter  and the correction signal generator block () is the same as the correction signal generator block DFE  of  for the BMAEHS with the decision feedback equalizer. The correction signal generator block  evaluates the second correction signal vector  and makes it available to the correction signal vectors normalize .","Referring to , the orthogonalized correction signal vector  Kavailable at the output of the orthogonalizer  is inputted to the multiplier  that multiplies the vector  Kby a positive scalar \u03bc. The scalar \u03bc may be selected to be either a constant or may be a function of k. For example, \u03bc may be equal to \u03bc=\u03bc(1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb) for some positive scalar \u03bcto and with 0<\u03bb<1. Such a time-varying \u03bc normalizes the matrix  Qin (87a) effectively replacing Qby ((1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb))Q\u2245E[  ]. Referring to , the output  of the multiplier  equal to \u03bcKis inputted to the adder  that adds the input  \u03bcKto the other input  of the adder equal to made available from the output of the delay . The output  of the adder  constitutes the updated equalizer parameter vector given by\n\n\u2003\u2003(88)\n\nThe vector  is input to the delay  providing the delayed version of the input at the output of the delay. Referring to , the equalizer parameter vector  is input to the correction signal generator () and the vector to scale converter . The vector to scalar converter  provides the components  \u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175with Npossibly equal to N, of the equalizer parameter vector  to the equalizer block that provides the linear estimate of the data symbol  \u00e2at the equalizer filter output.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0167"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["915","911","951","953","953","952","1","953","1","952","954","956","958","956","955","957","958","957","959","954","954","953","959","955","1","2","962","2","962","1","960","2","962","961","966","966","967","968","970","911","970","968","1","916","970"],"o":["w","w","w","\u03c7","w"],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"1 "},"c",{"sub2":"1"},"2","a","a","a","c",{"sub2":"1"},"2","a ","a ","a ","a ","k","f","a","f ","f","c",{"sub2":"1 "},"f","1","c",{"sub2":"1"},"f"],"sub":["k","k ","k ","k","c","k\u22121","k","\u22121","1","k","k","c ","k","k\u22121","p ","k ","c","k\u22121","k","k","c","k\u22121","k","c","c","k","k","k ","k","k","k","k","k","k"],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["p","p","+p",";p","=c",";p","=\u2225 ",";k=","p"]},"Referring to , the second correction signal vector  is input the mean square  estimator  that is comprised of the norm square block , the adder , the delay , the multiplier , and the divider . The operation of the mean square  estimator  is similar to that of the mean square  estimator  and provides the result  qevaluated according to (89c, d) to the square root block  that provides the output  \u221a{square root over (q)} to the divider . The second correction signal vector  is input to the divider  that normalized the second correction signal vector  providing the second normalized correction signal vector  = \/\u221a{square root over (q)} at the output of the divider .\n\n=\u03bb\u22250,1,\u2003\u2003(89c)\n\n(1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb);(1\u2212\u03bb)\/(1\u2212\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(89d)\n","Referring to , in various embodiments of the invention, positive scalars \u03bcand \u03bc therein may alternatively be selected according to\n\n\u03bc=\u03bc\/\u221a{square root over ()};\u03bc\/\u221a{square root over ()}\u2003\u2003(90)\n\nwith pand qevaluated according to (89). In (90) \u03bcis some positive scalar.\n","The equalizer total error variance equal to E[|a\u2212a|] with E denoting the expected value operator is in general dependent upon the size N of the equalizer parameter vector. Increasing N may result in the reduction of the equalizer total error variance, however it requires a higher computational complexity. For the BMAEHS of the invention, the dominant term in the number of computations per iteration of the equalizer parameter update algorithm is proportional to N. Thus doubling the size N of the equalizer parameter vector, for example, results in an increase in the number of computations by factor of four. The BMAEHS reduces the equalizer total error variance to a relatively small value even for a relatively small value of N, for example with N in the range of 10-20.","The equalizer total error variance can be further reduced while keeping the total number of computations required per iteration to a minimum by adding a second equalizer in cascade with the BMAEHS. The equalizer total error variance E[|a\u2212a|] achieved by the BMAEHS after the initial convergence period is relatively small implying the convolution of the channel impulse response vector  with the equalizer parameter vector is close to the discrete impulse vector =[ . . .  . . . ]. The linear estimate \u00e2of the data symbol may be considered to be the output of an unknown equivalent channel with impulse response vector with the input to the equivalent channel equal to a.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0173","num":"0172"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["90","2","1060","2","2","1060","2","1060","2","1060","2","2","2","2","2"],"sub":["k ","k ","k ","1","2","k ","k","k ","k","k","k","k ","k"],"sup":["2","d ","2","d ","2","d ","d"],"i":"a","o":["g","\u03b4","g"]},"Referring to , the normalized channel output  zis input to the BMAEHS block  that provides the detected symbol  aat the output. Referring to , the detected data symbol  aand the linear estimate of data symbol  \u00e2that is equal to z, are inputted to the blind mode adaptive equalizer  . Referring to , the linear estimate of the data symbol  \u00e2is input to the equalizer filter   with the equalizer parameter vector =[\u0175, . . . , \u0175, . . . , \u0175]and with the length of the equalizer   equal to N\u2032=N\u2032+N\u2032+1. In one of the various embodiments of the invention, the equalizer   in the blind mode adaptive equalizer  block  is a linear equalizer with N\u2032=N\u2032with its block diagram same as that given in . In various other embodiments of the invention, the equalizer   may be a decision feedback equalizer. The equalizer   is initialized with the initial parameter vector estimate = =[0 . . . 010 . . . 0]. The state vector  of equalizer   given by  =[z, . . . , z, . . . , z]is input to the adaptation block   of the blind mode adaptive equalizer  .","Referring to , the block diagram of the adaptation block   of the blind mode adaptive equalizer   is similar to that of adaptation block  given by  with the second correction signal vector in the figure possibly set to 0. The parameter update equation for the adaptation block   is given by\n\n+\u03bc (\u2212)*;0,1,\u2003\u2003(91a)\n\n= =[0 . . . 010 . . . 0]\u2003\u2003(92b)\n","The iteration in (91a) is performed by the adaptation block  for k>\u22670. However, the equalizer   parameter vector in the blind mode adaptive equalizer  is frozen at the initial condition during the first N\u2032iterations of (91a) and is updated after the initial N\u2032iteration of (91a) by the output  of switch S by closing the switch S after the initial N\u2032iteration of (91a), at k+M=N+N\u2032+N\u2032where Nand N\u2032are the convergence periods of the BMAEHS  and the blind mode adaptive equalizer   respectively. The convergence period Nis the time taken by the equalizer in the BMAEHS  to achieve some relatively small mean square error after the first Nsamples of the normalized channel output is inputted into the equalizer and may be selected to be about 100-200 samples. The convergence period N\u2032of the blind mode adaptive equalizer   is similarly defined.","Referring to , the linear estimate  of the data symbol \u00e2is input to the decision device  that provides the second detected data symbol  aat the output of the device according to the decision function D( ) that may be given by (20)-(25). The detected data symbol  ais connected to the input  of the switch S. The detected data symbol  afrom the BMAEHS  is inputted to the delay  that provides a delayed version  of the detected data symbol ato the position  of the switch S. The output  of the switch S is connected to the position  of the switch S for k+M<N+N\u2032+N\u2032and is in position  for k+M\u2267N+N\u2032+N\u2032. The output  aof the switch S is the final detected output of the cascaded equalizer. The final detected symbol  of the cascaded equalizer is equal to the delayed version  of the detected symbol afrom the BMAEHS  for k+M<N+N\u2032+N\u2032and is equal to the second detected data symbol  afor k+M\u2267N+N\u2032+N\u2032and is based on the combined equalization from both the stage 1 BMAEHS  and the stage 2 blind mode adaptive equalizer   of the cascaded equalizer. Referring to , the final detected symbol  is inputted to the adaptation block   and to the delay . The output  of the delay is inputted to the equalizer filter  .","One of the various embodiments of the invention relates to the problem of adaptive beam former for recovering data symbol transmitted form a source in a blind mode.  shows the embodiment of the invention for the problem of adaptive digital beam former. As shown in the Figure, a source transmitter  inputs an RF signal obtained by the baseband to RF conversion, not shown, of the source data symbols ato the transmit antenna  for transmission. The transmitted RF signal is received by an array of N antennas  a . . . n. The outputs  of the antennas  v(t), . . . , v(t) are input to the N RF front end blocks  a, . . . , n. The outputs  of the N front end blocks v(t), . . . , v(t) are inputted to the respective N RF to baseband complex converters  a, . . . , n. The complex baseband signals  v, . . . , vare inputted to the adaptive digital beam former  that provides the detected source data symbols aat the output. Referring to , the complex baseband signals  v, . . . , vare inputted to the N multipliers  a . . . n. The N multipliers  a . . . n multiply the inputs by the respective weights \u0175, . . . , \u0175made available by the multilevel adaptation block . The outputs  of the multipliers z, . . . , zare summed by the adder  providing the signal  sat the output. The adder output  sis inputted to the combiner gain normalizer block  providing the linear estimate of the data symbol  \u00e2to the decision device. The block diagram of the combiner gain normalizer block  is similar to that of the channel gain normalizer  of , except that the input zto the block  is replaced by the input  s. The decision device is similar to that given by the block  of .","Referring to , the multilevel adaptation block  generates the first correction signal vector wto minimize the error between \u00e2and aby minimizing the function",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0179"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00047","num":"00047"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"I","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["a","k","d"]},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"a","mo":"^"},"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"92"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"a","mo":"^"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["s","k"]},"mo":"\/","msubsup":{"mi":["G","k","m"]}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":["G","k","m"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","bT"]},"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"93"}}]}]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["k","k","1,k","2,k","N,k","k","1,k","N,k","k ","1","k","k","k","k","k","k","1 ","k "],"sup":["m ","T","b","b","b","T ","d","T","2","b","m "],"b":"1250","o":["v","\u0175","\u0175","\u0175","\u0175"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["=E[|a","\u2212 ",{"o":"v"}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0180"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00048","num":"00048"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"I","mn":"1"}},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["a","k","d"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":["k","T"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mi":"k"}}}}},"mo":"*"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"95"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["k","k","k","k","k","k"],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"1 "},"c",{"sub2":"1"},"d","T"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["w","= ","a","\u2212 ",{"o":"v"}]},"The second correction signal vector wis derived on the basis of the model error. Referring to , the complex baseband signal vector is given by\n\n\u2003\u2003(97)\n\nIn (97) =[g, g, . . . , g]is a scalar gain times the antenna array direction vector and is the noise vector. From (93) and (97) one obtains\n\n\u2003\u2003(98)\n\nThus ignoring the noise term in (8) the linear estimate of the data symbol \u00e2will be equal to \u00e2if  =1 and the difference is the model error. Thus the model error is minimized by the minimization of the function\n\n|1]\u2003\u2003(99)\n\nThe gradient of Iwith respect to is given by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0182"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00049","num":"00049"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"I","mn":"2"}},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["g","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]},"mi":["k","T"]},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["g","_"]}}}}},"mo":"*"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"100"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["k ","k","k","k","k","k\u22121","k","k\u22121","k","k","k\u22121","k","k","k","k","k","k\u22121","k","k\u22121","k","k\u22121","k","k\u22121","0 ","0 ","k ","k ","k ","k ","k ","k "],"sup":["d ","k\u22121","d","2","\u22121","\u22121","\u22121","2","2","\u22121"],"o":["g","\u011d","g","n","n"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"\u011d"},"= ","+K",{"o":"v"},{"o":"\u011d"},"k=","K","=P","a","a","P","+\u03bbR","=P","a","R","P","[P","\u2212|a","P","a","P","+\u03bbR","P"]},"For the special case of uncorrelated spatial noise, Ris a diagonal matrix with R=rI and with rdenoting the variance of each component of . With the matrix Pselected to be a diagonal matrix, and Ra diagonal matrix, Pfrom (101c) is also diagonal for all k>0. With Pdiagonal with P=pI for some scalar p>0, equation (101c) may be simplified to",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0185","num":"0184"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00050","num":"00050"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["p","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["r","k"]},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["r","k"]}},"mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["a","k"]}},"mn":"2"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":">","mn":"0"}],"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"101","mo":"\u2062","mi":"d"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"o":["g","\u011d"],"sub":["k ","k","k","k"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":[{"o":"w"},"= ","\u2212 ",{"o":"\u011d"}],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"2"},"k","T"]},"The robustness of the adaptive beam former may be further increased by simultaneously maximizing the signal to noise power ratio at the combiner output by maximizing the signal power at the output of the combiner while keeping the norm of the combiner weight vector close to 1. Equivalently the objective function Igiven by (103) is minimized with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0186"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00051","num":"00051"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"I","mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03ba","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mn":"2"}},{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"103"}}]}}}}},"In (103) \u03ba is some positive weighting scalar. The gradient of Iin (103) with respect to is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0188"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00052","num":"00052"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"I","mn":"3"}},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03ba","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k"}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"w","mover":{"mi":"_","mo":"^"}},"mi":"k","mo":"*"}},{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mover":{"mi":"a","mo":"^"},"mo":"*"}}}}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"104"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":[{"o":"w"},"= ","\u00e2*\u2212\u03ba(","\u2212\u2225 ",{"o":"\u0175"},{"o":"\u0175"},"= ",{"o":"v"},"a","\u2212 ",{"o":"v"},{"o":"\u011d"},"\u2212 ",{"o":"\u011d"},{"o":"v"},"\u00e2*\u2212\u03bc","\u2212\u2225 ",{"o":"\u0175"},{"o":"\u0175"},"= ","\/G",";k="],"sub":["k","k","k","k+1","k","1","k","k","k","k","2","k","k","k","3","k","4","k","k","k+1","k+1","k","k","k ","1","2","3 ","4 ","0 "],"sup":["c",{"sub2":"3"},"2","k","d","T","T","2","b","m","m "],"b":["1280","1250"],"o":["\u011d","\u0175","w"]},"Various modifications and other embodiments of the invention applicable to various problems in Engineering and other fields will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in the field of invention. For example, the architecture of the beam former can also be applied to the problem of diversity combining. In various other possible modifications, the level 1 adaptive system of  can be modified to include the constant modulus algorithm in those cases where the data symbol have constant modulus to provide additional robustness to the CMA based equalizers. As another example, the adaptive digital beam former architecture can be generalized to the case of broadband source wherein the various antenna gains and combiner weights are replaced by digital filters similar to the equalizer filter  of . The equalizer architectures of the invention can be readily modified and applied to various fields where an equalizer or combiner architecture is applicable but without the requirements of any training sequences. Examples of such fields include radio astronomy, seismology, digital audio signal processing and so on.","It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention, while eliminating other elements, for purposes of clarity. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable. However, because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention, a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.","In general, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that at least some of the embodiments described herein, including, for example, all of the modules of , may be implemented in many different embodiments of software, firmware, and\/or hardware, for example, based on Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) chips or implemented in Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICS). The software and firmware code may be executed by a computer or computing device comprising a processor (e.g., a DSP or any other similar processing circuit) including, for example, the computing device  described below. The processor may be in communication with memory or another computer readable medium comprising the software code. The software code or specialized control hardware that may be used to implement embodiments is not limiting. For example, embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type, using, for example, conventional or object-oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer-readable medium or media, such as, for example, a magnetic or optical storage medium. According to various embodiments, the software may be firmware stored at an EEPROM and\/or other non-volatile memory associated a DSP or other similar processing circuit. The operation and behavior of the embodiments may be described without specific reference to specific software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible, because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the present description with no more than reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0192"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","1600"]},"In the example of , the computing device  comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units , one or more memory circuits and\/or storage circuit component(s)  and one or more input\/output (I\/O) circuit devices . Additionally, the computing device  comprises a bus  that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus  represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus  may comprise wired and\/or wireless buses. The processing unit  may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs, applications programs, and\/or program modules\/blocks to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit  may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device  such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit  of the computing device  is shown in the context of a single processor architecture, it may be appreciated that the computing device  may use any suitable processor architecture and\/or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment, the processing unit  may be implemented using a single integrated processor. The processing unit  may be implemented as a host central processing unit (CPU) using any suitable processor circuit or logic device (circuit), such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit  also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor (CMP), dedicated processor, embedded processor, media processor, input\/output (I\/O) processor, co-processor, microprocessor, controller, microcontroller, application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), field programmable gate array (FPGA), programmable logic device (PLD), or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.","As shown, the processing unit  may be coupled to the memory and\/or storage component(s)  through the bus . The bus  may comprise any suitable interface and\/or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit  to access the memory and\/or storage component(s) . Although the memory and\/or storage component(s)  may be shown as being separate from the processing unit  for purposes of illustration, it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and\/or storage component(s)  may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively, some portion or the entire memory and\/or storage component(s)  may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium (e.g., hard disk drive) external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments, the computing device  may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and\/or memory card, for example. The memory and\/or storage component(s)  represent one or more computer-readable media. The memory and\/or storage component(s)  may be implemented using any computer-readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non-volatile memory, removable or non-removable memory, erasable or non-erasable memory, writeable or re-writeable memory, and so forth. The memory and\/or storage component(s)  may comprise volatile media (e.g., random access memory (RAM)) and\/or nonvolatile media (e.g., read only memory (ROM), Flash memory, optical disks, magnetic disks and the like). The memory and\/or storage component(s)  may comprise fixed media (e.g., RAM, ROM, a fixed hard drive, etc.) as well as removable media (e.g., a Flash memory drive, a removable hard drive, an optical disk). Examples of computer-readable storage media may include, without limitation, RAM, dynamic RAM (DRAM), Double-Data-Rate DRAM (DDRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), static RAM (SRAM), read-only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), erasable programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), flash memory (e.g., NOR or NAND flash memory), content addressable memory (CAM), polymer memory (e.g., ferroelectric polymer memory), phase-change memory, ovonic memory, ferroelectric memory, silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS) memory, magnetic or optical cards, or any other type of media suitable for storing information.","The one or more I\/O devices  allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device , and also allow information to be presented to the user and\/or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include data ports, analog to digital converters (ADCs), digital to analog converters (DACs), a keyboard, a cursor control device (e.g., a mouse), a microphone, a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include data ports, ADC's, DAC's, a display device (e.g., a monitor or projector, speakers, a printer, a network card). The computing device  may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise, for example, a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device  may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment, for example, the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display (LCD) such as a touch-sensitive color (e.g., 76-bit color) thin-film transistor (TFT) LCD screen. The touch-sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and\/or a handwriting recognizer program.","The processing unit  may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example, the processing unit  may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system (OS) and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device  and may be directly responsible for controlling, integrating, and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented, for example, as a Microsoft\u00ae Windows OS, Symbian OS\u2122, Embedix OS, Linux OS, Binary Run-time Environment for Wireless (BREW) OS, JavaOS, or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device  may comprise other system programs such as device drivers, programming tools, utility programs, software libraries, application programming interfaces (APIs), and so forth.","In various embodiments disclosed herein, a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative, such substitution is within the intended scope of the embodiments."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the present invention are described here by way of example in conjunction with the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
