---
title: Compositions and methods for improved plant feedstock
abstract: The invention provides methods for modifying lignin content and composition in plants and achieving associated benefits therefrom involving altered expression of newly discovered MYB4 transcription factors. Nucleic acid constructs for modifying MYB4 transcription factor expression are described. By over-expressing the identified MYB4 transcription factors, for example, an accompanying decrease in lignin content may be achieved. Plants are provided by the invention comprising such modifications, as are methods for their preparation and use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08901371&OS=08901371&RS=08901371
owner: The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, Inc.
number: 08901371
owner_city: Ardmore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120502
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Appl. Ser. No. 61\/483,460, filed May 6, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE-AC05-00OR22725 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy through the BioEnergy Science Center of the Office of Biological and Environmental Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates generally to the field of agriculture and plant genetics. More particularly, it concerns methods and compositions for producing improved feedstocks.","Switchgrass is one of the most promising lignocellulosic bioenergy crops for North America owning to its high biomass yield and wide geographic adaptation. However, the major barrier to efficient conversion of its lignocellulose to fuel is the recalcitrant nature of the lignin-enriched cell wall which prevents enzymatic degradation and thereby increases pretreatment costs. Reducing recalcitrance in switchgrass and other biomass crops by manipulating lignin biosynthesis through the expression of key transcription factors is one strategy for increasing biofuel availability.","In one aspect, the invention provides methods and compositions for improving biofuel feedstock by reducing lignin production through the over-expression of a transcription factor involved in the repression of lignin biosynthetic pathways. In another aspect, the invention provides compositions and methods for modifying MYB4 transcription factor expression to achieve desirable plant phenotypes. In further aspects, the invention provides constructs for over-expressing MYB4 in plants comprising a MYB4 transcription factor sequence as disclosed herein operably linked to a heterologous promoter that directs expression of the nucleotide sequence in a plant cell. MYB4 transcription factor sequences may also be down-regulated in accordance with the invention. Suppression of MYB4 expression may be accomplished by any method known in the art including, for instance via RNAi-mediated suppression, among other approaches. In certain aspects, the plant exhibits a reduced cell wall-bound coumaric acid to ferulic acid ratio. In further aspects, the plant are amenable to processing of sugars from their cell walls. In additional aspects, the plants have a decreased height but increased tillers and have a normal or even enhanced overall biomass.","In one aspect, the invention provides a nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) a nucleic acid sequence that hybridizes to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109 under conditions of 1\u00d7SSC and 65\u00b0 C.; (b) a nucleic acid comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109; (c) a nucleic acid sequence exhibiting at least 85% sequence identity to the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109; (d) a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a polypeptide at least 85% identical to the polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:8; SEQ ID NO:10; SEQ ID NO:12; SEQ ID NO:14; SEQ ID NO:32; SEQ ID NO:34; SEQ ID NO:38; SEQ ID NO:40; SEQ ID NO:42; SEQ ID NO:44; SEQ ID NO:54; SEQ ID NO:56; SEQ ID NO:60; SEQ ID NO:62; SEQ ID NO:66; SEQ ID NO:76; SEQ ID NO:82; SEQ ID NO:84; SEQ ID NO:90; SEQ ID NO:100; SEQ ID NO:102; SEQ ID NO:108; or SEQ ID NO:110; and (e) a nucleic acid sequence comprising the full complement of (a)-(d).","In another aspect, the invention is a A DNA construct comprising a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: (a) a nucleic acid sequence that hybridizes to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109 under conditions of 1\u00d7SSC and 65\u00b0 C.; (b) a nucleic acid comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109; (c) a nucleic acid sequence exhibiting at least 85% sequence identity to the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109; (d) a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a polypeptide at least 85% identical to the polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:8; SEQ ID NO:10; SEQ ID NO:12; SEQ ID NO:14; SEQ ID NO:32; SEQ ID NO:34; SEQ ID NO:38; SEQ ID NO:40; SEQ ID NO:42; SEQ ID NO:44; SEQ ID NO:54; SEQ ID NO:56; SEQ ID NO:60; SEQ ID NO:62; SEQ ID NO:66; SEQ ID NO:76; SEQ ID NO:82; SEQ ID NO:84; SEQ ID NO:90; SEQ ID NO:100; SEQ ID NO:102; SEQ ID NO:108; or SEQ ID NO:110; and (e) a nucleic acid sequence comprising the full complement of (a)-(d), wherein the nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a heterologous promoter sequence and wherein expression of the nucleic acid sequence in a transgenic plant reduces the lignin content of the plant. In still another aspect, the heterologous promoter sequence is a developmentally-regulated, organelle-specific, inducible, tissue-specific, constitutive, cell-specific, seed specific, or germination-specific promoter. In a further aspect, a plant comprises the above DNA construct.","In another aspect, the plant is forage plant, a biofuel crop, or a cereal crop. In a further aspect, the biofuel crop is switchgrass (), giant reed (), reed canarygrass (), sp., (), corn, sugarcane, sorghum, millet, ryegrass (sp.), timothy, (), soybean, alfalfa, clover, sunn hemp, kenaf, bahiagrass, bermudagrass, dallisgrass, pangolagrass, big bluestem, indiangrass, fescue (sp.), (centipede grass), sp., , smooth bromegrass, orchardgrass, Kentucky bluegrass, poplar, rice, cotton, (red sage), apple, (common grape), (castor oil plant), (hops), (orchid), (mustard), kudzu () or wheat. In a further aspect, the transgenic plant comprising a DNA construct of the invention is an R0 transgenic plant or progeny of any generation of an R0 transgenic plant, wherein the transgenic plant has inherited the DNA construct.","In another aspect, the plant further comprises at least a second nucleic acid sequence that down-regulates lignin biosynthesis, and wherein the sequence down-regulates a lignin biosynthesis gene selected from the group consisting of 4-coumarate 3-hydroxylase (C3H), phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H), hydroxycinnamoyl coenzyme A: shikimate hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HCT), caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT), caffeoyl CoA 3-O-methyltransferase (CCoAOMT), ferulate 5-hydroxylase (F5H), cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD), cinnamoyl CoA-reductase (CCR), and 4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL). In another aspect, the transgenic plant of the present invention comprising a second nucleic acid sequence comprises an antisense or RNAi construct.","In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of modifying the lignin content of a plant comprising down-regulating or over-expressing in the plant a MYB4 transcription factor that functions to suppress lignin biosynthesis. In certain aspects, the method comprises over-expressing in the plant the MYB4 transcription factor and wherein lignin content is decreased in the plant. In another aspect, the method comprises expressing in the plant a certain DNA construct. In still another aspect, the plant expressing the DNA construct has an increased content of fermentable carbohydrates. In a further aspect, the plant comprises down-regulating the MYB4 transcription factor and increasing lignin. In an additional aspect, down-regulating the MYB4 transcription factor comprises expressing in the plant a RNAi or antisense construct comprising all or a part of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; or SEQ ID NO:109; wherein the expression of the RNAi or antisense construct down-regulates said MYB4 transcription factor.","Embodiments discussed in the context of methods and\/or compositions of the invention may be employed with respect to any other method or composition described herein. Thus, an embodiment pertaining to one method or composition may be applied to other methods and compositions of the invention as well.","As used herein the specification, \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d may mean one or more. As used herein in the claim(s), when used in conjunction with the word \u201ccomprising\u201d, the words \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d may mean one or more than one.","The use of the term \u201cor\u201d in the claims is used to mean \u201cand\/or\u201d unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive, although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and \u201cand\/or.\u201d As used herein \u201canother\u201d may mean at least a second or more.","Throughout this application, the term \u201cabout\u201d is used to indicate that a value includes the inherent variation of error for the device, the method being employed to determine the value, or the variation that exists among the study subjects.","Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood, however, that the detailed description and the specific examples, while indicating illustrative embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.","The invention provides methods and compositions for improving biofuel feedstock by reducing lignin production through the over-expression of a transcription factor identified by the inventors as involved in the repression of lignin biosynthetic pathways. It was also surprisingly found by the inventors that plants could be obtained exhibiting reduced cell wall-bound coumaric acid to ferulic acid ratio. Plants produced in accordance with the invention were further found to be more amenable to processing of sugars from their cell walls, which is beneficial for forage digestibility as well as biofuel processing by fermentation. Furthermore, transgenic plants were identified with a decreased height but increased tillers, beneficial for forage use, and some lines were recovered with a normal or even enhanced overall biomass.","The invention therefore provides compositions and methods for modifying MYB4 transcription factor expression to achieve desirable plant phenotypes. This includes constructs for over-expressing MYB4 in plants comprising a MYB4 transcription factor sequence as disclosed herein operably linked to a heterologous promoter that directs expression of the nucleotide sequence in a plant cell.","MYB4 transcription factor sequences may also be down-regulated in accordance with the invention. Suppression of MYB4 expression may be accomplished by any method known in the art including, for instance via RNAi-mediated suppression, among other approaches.","Of particular interest are polynucleotide molecules wherein the polynucleotide molecules encode a polypeptide with MYB4 transcription factor activity, such as the ability to suppress lignin biosynthesis. This includes sequences that comprise, in specific embodiments, at least about 85% sequence identity, at least about 90% sequence identity, at least about 92% sequence identity, at least about 94% sequence identity, or even greater sequence identity, specifically including about 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, and about 99% or greater sequence identity with any of the nucleic acid sequences disclosed herein, including those of SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:7; SEQ ID NO:9; SEQ ID NO:11; SEQ ID NO:13; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:39; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:53; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:59; SEQ ID NO:61; SEQ ID NO:65; SEQ ID NO:75; SEQ ID NO:81; SEQ ID NO:83; SEQ ID NO:89; SEQ ID NO:99; SEQ ID NO:101; SEQ ID NO:107; and SEQ ID NO:109.","The invention further provides polypeptide sequences, and the nucleic acids that encode them, wherein the polypeptide comprises at least about 85% sequence identity, at least about 90% sequence identity, at least about 92% sequence identity, at least about 94% sequence identity, or even greater sequence identity, specifically including about 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, and about 99% or greater sequence identity with any of the polypeptide sequences disclosed herein, including those of SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:8; SEQ ID NO:10; SEQ ID NO:12; SEQ ID NO:14; SEQ ID NO:32; SEQ ID NO:34; SEQ ID NO:38; SEQ ID NO:40; SEQ ID NO:42; SEQ ID NO:44; SEQ ID NO:54; SEQ ID NO:56; SEQ ID NO:60; SEQ ID NO:62; SEQ ID NO:66; SEQ ID NO:76; SEQ ID NO:82; SEQ ID NO:84; SEQ ID NO:90; SEQ ID NO:100; SEQ ID NO:102; SEQ ID NO:108; or SEQ ID NO:110. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is defined as comprising MYB4 transcription factor activity.","In certain embodiments of the invention, nucleic acids hybridizing to the disclosed sequences or a complement or reverse complement thereof, under stringent conditions, are provided. Such stringent conditions are well known in the art and include 5\u00d7.SSC, 50% formamide and 42\u00b0 C., or 1\u00d7 (or less) SSC and 65\u00b0 C. The invention further provides nucleic acid sequences that encode a sequence complementary to all or a part of an mRNA encoded by a MYB4 transcription factor sequence provided herein, as described herein and known in the art, wherein the expression of the sequences functions to down-regulate MYB4. In certain embodiments of the invention, fragments or complements thereof of at least 21 contiguous nucleotides of a nucleic acid sequence disclosed herein are provided.","The overall process for the production of ethanol from biomass typically involves two steps: saccharification and fermentation. First, saccharification produces fermentable sugars from the cellulose and hemicellulose in the lignocellulosic biomass. Second, those sugars are then fermented to produce ethanol. Additional methods and protocols for the production of ethanol from biomass are known in the art and reviewed in, for example, Wyman (1999); Gong et al., (1999); Sun and Cheng, (2002); and Olsson and Hahn-Hagerdal (1996).","A. Pretreatment","Raw biomass is typically pretreated to increase porosity, hydrolyze hemicellulose, remove lignin and reduce cellulose crystallinity, all in order to improve recovery of fermentable sugars from the cellulose polymer. As a preliminary step in pretreatment, the lignocellulosic material may be chipped or ground. The size of the biomass particles after chipping or grinding is typically between 0.2 and 30 mm. After chipping a number of other pretreatment options may be used to further prepare the biomass for saccharification and fermentation, including steam explosion, ammonia fiber explosion, acid hydrolysis.","1. Steam Explosion","Steam explosion is a very common method for pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass and increases the amount of cellulose available for enzymatic hydrolysis (U.S. Pat. No. 4,461,648). Generally, the material is treated with high-pressure saturated steam and the pressure is rapidly reduced, causing the materials to undergo an explosive decompression. Steam explosion is typically initiated at a temperature of 160-260\u00b0 C. for several seconds to several minutes at pressures of up to 4.5 to 5 MPa. The biomass is then exposed to atmospheric pressure. The process causes hemicellulose degradation and lignin transformation. Addition of HSO, SO, or COto the steam explosion reaction can improve subsequent cellulose hydrolysis, decrease production of inhibitory compounds and lead to the more complete removal of hemicellulose (Morjanoff and Gray, 1987).","2. Ammonia Fiber Explosion (AFEX)","In AFEX pretreatment, the biomass is treated with approximately 1-2 kg ammonia per kg dry biomass for approximately 30 minutes at pressures of 1.5 to 2 MPa. (U.S. Pat. No. 4,600,590; U.S. Pat. No. 5,037,663; Mes-Hartree, et al., 1988). Like steam explosion, the pressure is then rapidly reduced to atmospheric levels, boiling the ammonia and exploding the lignocellulosic material. AFEX pretreatment appears to be especially effective for biomass with a relatively low lignin content, but not for biomass with high lignin content such as newspaper or aspen chips (Sun and Cheng, 2002).","3. Acid Hydrolysis","Concentrated or dilute acids may also be used for pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass. HSOand HCl have been used at high, >70%, concentrations. In addition to pretreatment, concentrated acid may also be used for hydrolysis of cellulose (U.S. Pat. No. 5,972,118). Dilute acids can be used at either high (>160\u00b0 C.) or low (<160\u00b0 C.) temperatures, although high temperature may be beneficial for cellulose hydrolysis (Sun and Cheng, 2002). HSOand HCl at concentrations of 0.3 to 2% (w\/w) and treatment times ranging from minutes to 2 hours or longer can be used for dilute acid pretreatment.","Other pretreatments include alkaline hydrolysis, oxidative delignification, organosolv process, or biological pretreatment; see Sun and Cheng (2002).","B. Saccharification","After pretreatment, the cellulose in the lignocellulosic biomass may be hydrolyzed with cellulase enzymes. Cellulase catalyzes the breakdown of cellulose to release glucose which can then be fermented into ethanol.","Bacteria and fungi produce cellulases suitable for use in ethanol production (Duff and Murray, 1995). For example, and have been extensively studied for cellulase production. Among fungi, members of the genus, and in particular , have been the most extensively studied. Numerous cellulases are available from commercial sources as well. Cellulases are usually actually a mixture of several different specific activities. First, endoglucanases create free chain ends of the cellulose fiber. Exoglucanases remove cellobiose units from the free chain ends and beta-glucosidase hydrolyzes cellobiose to produce free glucose.","Reaction conditions for enzymatic hydrolysis are typically around pH 4.8 at a temperature between 45 and 50\u00b0 C. with incubations of between 10 and 120 hours. Cellulase loading can vary from around 5 to 35 filter paper units (FPU) of activity per gram of substrate Surfactants like Tween 20, 80, polyoxyethylene glycol or Tween 81 may also be used during enzyme hydrolysis to improve cellulose conversion. Additionally, combinations or mixtures of available cellulases and other enzymes may also lead to increased saccharification.","Aside from enzymatic hydrolysis, cellulose may also be hydrolyzed with weak acids or hydrochloric acid (Lee et al., 1999).","C. Fermentation","Once fermentable sugars have been produced from the lignocellulosic biomass, those sugars may be used to produce ethanol via fermentation. Fermentation processes for producing ethanol from lignocellulosic biomass are extensively reviewed in Olsson and Hahn-Hagerdal (1996). Briefly, for maximum efficiencies, both pentose sugars from the hemicellulose fraction of the lignocellulosic material (e.g., xylose) and hexose sugars from the cellulose fraction (e.g., glucose) should be utilized. are widely used for fermentation of hexose sugars. Pentose sugars, released from the hemicellulose portion of the biomass, may be fermented using genetically engineered bacteria, including (U.S. Pat. No. 5,000,000) or (Zhang et al., 1995). Fermentation with yeast strains is typically optimal around temperatures of 30 to 37\u00b0 C.","D. Simultaneous Saccharification and Fermentation (SSF)","Cellulase activity is inhibited by its end products, cellobiose and glucose. Consequently, as saccharification proceeds, the build up of those end products increasingly inhibits continued hydrolysis of the cellulose substrate. Thus, the fermentation of sugars as they are produced in the saccharification process leads to improved efficiencies for cellulose utilization (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 3,990,944). This process is known as simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF), and is an alternative to the above described separate saccharification and fermentation steps. In addition to increased cellulose utilization, SSF also eliminates the need for a separate vessel and processing step. The optimal temperature for SSF is around 38\u00b0 C., which is a compromise between the optimal temperatures of cellulose hydrolysis and sugar fermentation. SSF reactions can proceed up to 5 to 7 days.","E. Distillation","The final step for production of ethanol is distillation. The fermentation or SSF product is distilled using conventional methods producing ethanol, for instance 95% ethanol.","In a certain embodiment DNA constructs for plant transformation are provided. Vectors used for plant transformation may include, for example, plasmids, cosmids, YACs (yeast artificial chromosomes), BACs (bacterial artificial chromosomes) or any other suitable cloning system, as well as fragments of DNA therefrom. Thus when the term \u201cvector\u201d or \u201cexpression vector\u201d is used, all of the foregoing types of vectors, as well as nucleic acid sequences isolated therefrom, are included. It is contemplated that utilization of cloning systems with large insert capacities will allow introduction of large DNA sequences comprising more than one selected gene. In accordance with the invention, this could be used to introduce genes corresponding to an entire biosynthetic pathway into a plant. Introduction of such sequences may be facilitated by use of bacterial or yeast artificial chromosomes (BACs or YACs, respectively), or even plant artificial chromosomes. For example, the use of BACs for -mediated transformation was disclosed by Hamilton et al. (1996).","Particularly useful for transformation are expression cassettes which have been isolated from such vectors. DNA segments used for transforming plant cells will, of course, generally comprise the cDNA, gene or genes which one desires to introduce into and have expressed in the host cells. These DNA segments can further include structures such as promoters, enhancers, polylinkers, or even regulatory genes as desired. The DNA segment or gene chosen for cellular introduction will often encode a protein which will be expressed in the resultant recombinant cells resulting in a screenable or selectable trait and\/or which will impart an improved phenotype to the resulting transgenic plant. However, this may not always be the case, and the present invention also encompasses transgenic plants incorporating non-expressed transgenes. Components that may be included with vectors used in the current invention are as follows.","Exemplary promoters for expression of a nucleic acid sequence include plant promoter such as the CaMV 35S promoter (Odell et al., 1985), or others such as CaMV 19S (Lawton et al., 1987), nos (Ebert et al., 1987), Adh (Walker et al., 1987), sucrose synthase (Yang and Russell, 1990), \u03b1-tubulin, actin (Wang et al., 1992), cab (Sullivan et al., 1989), PEPCase (Hudspeth and Grula, 1989) or those associated with the R gene complex (Chandler et al., 1989). Tissue specific promoters such as root cell promoters (Conkling et al., 1990) and tissue specific enhancers (Fromm et al., 1986) are also contemplated to be useful, as are inducible promoters such as ABA- and turgor-inducible promoters.","The DNA sequence between the transcription initiation site and the start of the coding sequence, i.e., the untranslated leader sequence, can also influence gene expression. One may thus wish to employ a particular leader sequence with a transformation construct of the invention. Leader sequences are contemplated to include those which comprise sequences predicted to direct optimum expression of the attached gene, i.e., to include a consensus leader sequence which may increase or maintain mRNA stability and prevent inappropriate initiation of translation. The choice of such sequences will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. Sequences that are derived from genes that are highly expressed in plants may be beneficial in particular embodiments.","It is contemplated that vectors for use in accordance with the present invention may be constructed to include an ocs enhancer element. This element was first identified as a 16 bp palindromic enhancer from the octopine synthase (ocs) gene of (Ellis et al., 1987), and is present in at least 10 other promoters (Bouchez et al., 1989). The use of an enhancer element, such as the ocs element and particularly multiple copies of the element, may act to increase the level of transcription from adjacent promoters when applied in the context of plant transformation.","It is envisioned that MYB4 coding sequences (or complements thereof) may be introduced under the control of novel promoters or enhancers, etc., or homologous or tissue specific promoters or control elements. Vectors for use in tissue-specific targeting of genes in transgenic plants will typically include tissue-specific promoters and may also include other tissue-specific control elements such as enhancer sequences. Promoters which direct specific or enhanced expression in certain plant tissues will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. These include, for example, the rbcS promoter, specific for green tissue; the ocs, nos and mas promoters which have higher activity in roots or wounded leaf tissue.","Transformation constructs prepared in accordance with the invention will typically include a 3\u2032 end DNA sequence that acts as a signal to terminate transcription and allow for the poly-adenylation of the mRNA produced by coding sequences operably linked to a promoter. It is envisioned that the native terminator of a MYB4 coding sequence may be used. Alternatively, a heterologous 3\u2032 end may enhance the expression of sense or antisense MYB4 coding sequences. Examples of terminators that are deemed to be useful in this context include those from the nopaline synthase gene of (nos 3\u2032 end) (Bevan et al., 1983), the terminator for the T7 transcript from the octopine synthase gene of , and the 3\u2032 end of the protease inhibitor I or II genes from potato or tomato. Regulatory elements such as an Adh intron (Callis et al., 1987), sucrose synthase intron (Vasil et al., 1989) or TMV omega element (Gallie et al., 1989), may further be included where desired.","Sequences that are joined to the coding sequence of an expressed gene, which are removed post-translationally from the initial translation product and which facilitate the transport of the protein into or through intracellular or extracellular membranes, are termed transit (usually into vacuoles, vesicles, plastids and other intracellular organelles) and signal sequences (usually to the endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus and outside of the cellular membrane). By facilitating the transport of the protein into compartments inside and outside the cell, these sequences may increase the accumulation of gene product protecting them from proteolytic degradation. These sequences also allow for additional mRNA sequences from highly expressed genes to be attached to the coding sequence of the genes. Since mRNA being translated by ribosomes is more stable than naked mRNA, the presence of translatable mRNA in front of the gene may increase the overall stability of the mRNA transcript from the gene and thereby increase synthesis of the gene product. Since transit and signal sequences are usually post-translationally removed from the initial translation product, the use of these sequences allows for the addition of extra translated sequences that may not appear on the final polypeptide. It further is contemplated that targeting of certain proteins may be desirable in order to enhance the stability of the protein (U.S. Pat. No. 5,545,818, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).","Additionally, vectors may be constructed and employed in the intracellular targeting of a specific gene product within the cells of a transgenic plant or in directing a protein to the extracellular environment. This generally will be achieved by joining a DNA sequence encoding a transit or signal peptide sequence to the coding sequence of a particular gene. The resultant transit, or signal, peptide will transport the protein to a particular intracellular, or extracellular destination, respectively, and will then be post-translationally removed.","By employing a selectable or screenable marker protein, one can provide or enhance the ability to identify transformants. \u201cMarker genes\u201d are genes that impart a distinct phenotype to cells expressing the marker protein and thus allow such transformed cells to be distinguished from cells that do not have the marker. Such genes may encode either a selectable or screenable marker, depending on whether the marker confers a trait which one can \u201cselect\u201d for by chemical means, i.e., through the use of a selective agent (e.g., a herbicide, antibiotic, or the like), or whether it is simply a trait that one can identify through observation or testing, i.e., by \u201cscreening\u201d (e.g., the green fluorescent protein). Of course, many examples of suitable marker proteins are known to the art and can be employed in the practice of the invention.","Many selectable marker coding regions are known and could be used with the present invention including, but not limited to, neo (Potrykus et al., 1985), which provides kanamycin resistance and can be selected for using kanamycin, G418, paromomycin, etc.; bar, which confers bialaphos or phosphinothricin resistance; a mutant EPSP synthase protein (Hinchee et al., 1988) conferring glyphosate resistance; a nitrilase such as bxn from which confers resistance to bromoxynil (Stalker et al., 1988); a mutant acetolactate synthase (ALS) which confers resistance to imidazolinone, sulfonylurea or other ALS inhibiting chemicals (European Patent Application 154204, 1985); a methotrexate resistant DHFR (Thillet et al., 1988), a dalapon dehalogenase that confers resistance to the herbicide dalapon; or a mutated anthranilate synthase that confers resistance to 5-methyl tryptophan.","An illustrative embodiment of selectable marker capable of being used in systems to select transformants are those that encode the enzyme phosphinothricin acetyltransferase, such as the bar gene from or the pat gene from viridochromogenes. The enzyme phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT) inactivates the active ingredient in the herbicide bialaphos, phosphinothricin (PPT). PPT inhibits glutamine synthetase, (Murakami et al., 1986; Twell et al., 1989) causing rapid accumulation of ammonia and cell death.","Screenable markers that may be employed include a \u03b2-glucuronidase (GUS) or uidA gene which encodes an enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates are known; an R-locus gene, which encodes a product that regulates the production of anthocyanin pigments (red color) in plant tissues (Dellaporta et al., 1988); a \u03b2-lactamase gene (Sutcliffe, 1978), which encodes an enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates are known (e.g., PADAC, a chromogenic cephalosporin); a xy1E gene (Zukowsky et al., 1983) which encodes a catechol dioxygenase that can convert chromogenic catechols; an \u03b1-amylase gene (Ikuta et al., 1990); a tyrosinase gene (Katz et al., 1983) which encodes an enzyme capable of oxidizing tyrosine to DOPA and dopaquinone which in turn condenses to form the easily-detectable compound melanin; a \u03b2-galactosidase gene, which encodes an enzyme for which there are chromogenic substrates; a luciferase (lux) gene (Ow et al., 1986), which allows for bioluminescence detection; an aequorin gene (Prasher et al., 1985) which may be employed in calcium-sensitive bioluminescence detection; or a gene encoding for green fluorescent protein (Sheen et al., 1995; Haseloff et al., 1997; Reichel et al., 1996; Tian et al., 1997; WO 97\/41228). The gene that encodes green fluorescent protein (GFP) is also contemplated as a particularly useful reporter gene (Sheen et al., 1995; Haseloff et al., 1997; Reichel et al., 1996; Tian et al., 1997; WO 97\/41228). Expression of green fluorescent protein may be visualized in a cell or plant as fluorescence following illumination by particular wavelengths of light.","Antisense and RNAi treatments represent one way of reducing MYB4 transcription factor expression in accordance with the invention. Techniques for RNAi are well known in the art and are described in, for example, Lehner et al., (2004) and Downward (2004). The technique is based on the fact that double stranded RNA is capable of directing the degradation of messenger RNA with sequence complementary to one or the other strand (Fire et al., 1998). Therefore, by expression of a particular coding sequence in sense and antisense orientation, either as a fragment or longer portion of the corresponding coding sequence, the expression of that coding sequence can be down-regulated.","Antisense, and in some aspects RNAi, methodology takes advantage of the fact that nucleic acids tend to pair with \u201ccomplementary\u201d sequences. By complementary, it is meant that polynucleotides are those which are capable of base-pairing according to the standard Watson-Crick complementarity rules. That is, the larger purines will base pair with the smaller pyrimidines to form combinations of guanine paired with cytosine (G:C) and adenine paired with either thymine (A:T) in the case of DNA, or adenine paired with uracil (A:U) in the case of RNA. Inclusion of less common bases such as inosine, 5-methylcytosine, 6-methyladenine, hypoxanthine and others in hybridizing sequences does not interfere with pairing.","Targeting double-stranded (ds) DNA with polynucleotides leads to triple-helix formation; targeting RNA will lead to double-helix formation. Antisense oligonucleotides, when introduced into a target cell, specifically bind to their target polynucleotide and interfere with transcription, RNA processing, transport, translation and\/or stability. Antisense and RNAi constructs, or DNA encoding such RNA's, may be employed to inhibit gene transcription or translation or both within a host cell, either in vitro or in vivo, such as within a host plant cell. In certain embodiments of the invention, such an oligonucleotide may comprise any unique portion of a nucleic acid sequence provided herein. In certain embodiments of the invention, such a sequence comprises at least 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 30, 50, 75 or 100 or more contiguous nucleic acids of the nucleic acid sequence of any of the MYB4 transcription factor sequences provided herein, and\/or complements thereof, which may be in sense and\/or antisense orientation. By including sequences in both sense and antisense orientation, increased suppression of the corresponding coding sequence may be achieved.","Constructs may be designed that are complementary to all or part of the promoter and other control regions, exons, introns or even exon-intron boundaries of a gene. It is contemplated that the most effective constructs may include regions complementary to intron\/exon splice junctions. Thus, it is proposed that one embodiment includes a construct with complementarity to regions within 50-200 bases of an intron-exon splice junction. It has been observed that some exon sequences can be included in the construct without seriously affecting the target selectivity thereof. The amount of exonic material included will vary depending on the particular exon and intron sequences used. One can readily test whether too much exon DNA is included simply by testing the constructs in vitro to determine whether normal cellular function is affected or whether the expression of related genes having complementary sequences is affected.","As stated above, \u201ccomplementary\u201d or \u201cantisense\u201d means polynucleotide sequences that are substantially complementary over their entire length and have very few base mismatches. For example, sequences of fifteen bases in length may be termed complementary when they have complementary nucleotides at thirteen or fourteen positions. Naturally, sequences which are completely complementary will be sequences which are entirely complementary throughout their entire length and have no base mismatches. Other sequences with lower degrees of homology also are contemplated. For example, an RNAi or antisense construct which has limited regions of high homology, but also contains a non-homologous region (e.g., ribozyme; see above) could be designed. Methods for selection and design of sequences that generate RNAi are well known in the art (e.g., Reynolds, 2004). These molecules, though having less than 50% homology, would bind to target sequences under appropriate conditions.","It may be advantageous to combine portions of genomic DNA with cDNA or synthetic sequences to generate specific constructs. For example, where an intron is desired in the ultimate construct, a genomic clone will need to be used. The cDNA or a synthesized polynucleotide may provide more convenient restriction sites for the remaining portion of the construct and, therefore, would be used for the rest of the sequence. Constructs useful for generating RNAi may also comprise concatemers of sub-sequences that display gene regulating activity.","Suitable methods for transformation of plant or other cells for use with the current invention are believed to include virtually any method by which DNA can be introduced into a cell, such as by direct delivery of DNA such as by PEG-mediated transformation of protoplasts (Omirulleh et al., 1993), by desiccation\/inhibition-mediated DNA uptake (Potrykus et al., 1985), by electroporation (U.S. Pat. No. 5,384,253, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), by agitation with silicon carbide fibers (Kaeppler et al., 1990; U.S. Pat. No. 5,302,523, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,464,765, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), by -mediated transformation (U.S. Pat. No. 5,591,616 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,563,055; both specifically incorporated herein by reference) and by acceleration of DNA coated particles (U.S. Pat. No. 5,550,318; U.S. Pat. No. 5,538,877; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,538,880; each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), etc. Through the application of techniques such as these, the cells of virtually any plant species, including biofuel crop species, may be stably transformed, and these cells developed into transgenic plants.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"i":["Agrobacterium","Agrobacterium"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"i":["Agrobacterium","Arabidopsis","Agrobacterium","Agrobacterium","Agrobacterium"]},"Modern transformation vectors are capable of replication in as well as , allowing for convenient manipulations as described (Klee et al., 1985). Moreover, recent technological advances in vectors for -mediated gene transfer have improved the arrangement of genes and restriction sites in the vectors to facilitate the construction of vectors capable of expressing various polypeptide coding genes. The vectors described (Rogers et al., 1987) have convenient multi-linker regions flanked by a promoter and a polyadenylation site for direct expression of inserted polypeptide coding genes and are suitable for present purposes. In addition, containing both armed and disarmed Ti genes can be used for the transformations. In those plant strains where -mediated transformation is efficient, it is the method of choice because of the facile and defined nature of the gene transfer.","Similarly, mediated transformation has also proven to be effective in switchgrass. Somleva et al., (2002) describe the creation of approximately 600 transgenic switchgrass plants carrying a bar gene and a uidA gene (beta-glucuronidase) under control of a maize ubiquitin promoter and rice actin promoter respectively. Both genes were expressed in the primary transformants and could be inherited and expressed in subsequent generations. Addition of 50 to 200 \u03bcM acetosyringone to the inoculation medium increased the frequency of transgenic switchgrass plants recovered.","One also may employ protoplasts for electroporation transformation of plants (Bates, 1994; Lazzeri, 1995). For example, the generation of transgenic soybean plants by electroporation of cotyledon-derived protoplasts is described by Dhir and Widholm in Intl. Patent Appl. Publ. No. WO 9217598 (specifically incorporated herein by reference). Other examples of species for which protoplast transformation has been described include barley (Lazerri, 1995), sorghum (Battraw et al., 1991), maize (Bhattacharjee et al., 1997), wheat (He et al., 1994) and tomato (Tsukada, 1989).","Another method for delivering transforming DNA segments to plant cells is microprojectile bombardment (U.S. Pat. No. 5,550,318; U.S. Pat. No. 5,538,880; U.S. Pat. No. 5,610,042; and PCT Application WO 94\/09699; each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). In this method, particles may be coated with nucleic acids and delivered into cells by a propelling force. Exemplary particles include those comprised of tungsten, platinum, and gold. For the bombardment, cells in suspension can be concentrated on filters or solid culture medium. Alternatively, immature embryos or other target cells may be arranged on solid culture medium. The cells to be bombarded are positioned at an appropriate distance below a macroprojectile stopping plate.","Examples of species for which have been transformed by microprojectile bombardment include monocot species such as maize (PCT Application WO 95\/06128), barley (Ritala et al., 1994; Hensgens et al., 1993), wheat (U.S. Pat. No. 5,563,055, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), rice (Hensgens et al., 1993), oat (Torbet et al., 1995; Torbet et al., 1998), rye (Hensgens et al., 1993), sugarcane (Bower et al., 1992), and sorghum (Casa et al., 1993; Hagio et al., 1991); as well as a number of dicots including tobacco (Tomes et al., 1990; Buising and Benbow, 1994), soybean (U.S. Pat. No. 5,322,783, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), sunflower (Knittel et al., 1994), peanut (Singsit et al., 1997), cotton (McCabe and Martinell, 1993), tomato (VanEck et al., 1995), and legumes in general (U.S. Pat. No. 5,563,055, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).","Richards et al., (2001) describe the creation of transgenic switchgrass plants using particle bombardment. Callus was bombarded with a plasmid carrying a sgfp (green fluorescent protein) gene and a bar (bialaphos and Basta tolerance) gene under control of a rice actin promoter and maize ubiquitin promoter respectively. Plants regenerated from bombarded callus were Basta tolerant and expressed GFP. These primary transformants were then crossed with non-transgenic control plants, and Basta tolerance was observed in progeny plants, demonstrating inheritance of the bar gene.","Tissue cultures may be used in certain transformation techniques for the preparation of cells for transformation and for the regeneration of plants therefrom. Maintenance of tissue cultures requires use of media and controlled environments. \u201cMedia\u201d refers to the numerous nutrient mixtures that are used to grow cells in vitro, that is, outside of the intact living organism. The medium usually is a suspension of various categories of ingredients (salts, amino acids, growth regulators, sugars, buffers) that are required for growth of most cell types. However, each specific cell type requires a specific range of ingredient proportions for growth, and an even more specific range of formulas for optimum growth. Rate of cell growth also will vary among cultures initiated with the array of media that permit growth of that cell type.","Nutrient media is prepared as a liquid, but this may be solidified by adding the liquid to materials capable of providing a solid support. Agar is most commonly used for this purpose. BACTOAGAR, GELRITE, and GELGRO are specific types of solid support that are suitable for growth of plant cells in tissue culture.","Some cell types will grow and divide either in liquid suspension or on solid media. As disclosed herein, plant cells will grow in suspension or on solid medium, but regeneration of plants from suspension cultures typically requires transfer from liquid to solid media at some point in development. The type and extent of differentiation of cells in culture will be affected not only by the type of media used and by the environment, for example, pH, but also by whether media is solid or liquid.","Where employed, cultured cells may be grown either on solid supports or in the form of liquid suspensions. In either instance, nutrients may be provided to the cells in the form of media, and environmental conditions controlled. There are many types of tissue culture media comprised of various amino acids, salts, sugars, growth regulators and vitamins. Most of the media employed in the practice of the invention will have some similar components, but may differ in the composition and proportions of their ingredients depending on the particular application envisioned. For example, various cell types usually grow in more than one type of media, but will exhibit different growth rates and different morphologies, depending on the growth media. In some media, cells survive but do not divide. Various types of media suitable for culture of plant cells previously have been described. Examples of these media include, but are not limited to, the N6 medium described by Chu et al., (1975) and MS media (Murashige and Skoog, 1962).","After effecting delivery of exogenous DNA to recipient cells, the next steps generally concern identifying the transformed cells for further culturing and plant regeneration. In order to improve the ability to identify transformants, one may desire to employ a selectable or screenable marker gene with a transformation vector prepared in accordance with the invention. In this case, one would then generally assay the potentially transformed cell population by exposing the cells to a selective agent or agents, or one would screen the cells for the desired marker gene trait.","It is believed that DNA is introduced into only a small percentage of target cells in any one study. In order to provide an efficient system for identification of those cells receiving DNA and integrating it into their genomes one may employ a means for selecting those cells that are stably transformed. One exemplary embodiment of such a method is to introduce into the host cell, a marker gene which confers resistance to some normally inhibitory agent, such as an antibiotic or herbicide. Examples of antibiotics which may be used include the aminoglycoside antibiotics neomycin, kanamycin and paromomycin, or the antibiotic hygromycin. Resistance to the aminoglycoside antibiotics is conferred by aminoglycoside phosphotransferase enzymes such as neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) or NPT I, whereas resistance to hygromycin is conferred by hygromycin phosphotransferase.","Potentially transformed cells then are exposed to the selective agent. In the population of surviving cells will be those cells where, generally, the resistance-conferring gene has been integrated and expressed at sufficient levels to permit cell survival. Cells may be tested further to confirm stable integration of the exogenous DNA.","One herbicide which constitutes a desirable selection agent is the broad spectrum herbicide bialaphos. Bialaphos is a tripeptide antibiotic produced by and is composed of phosphinothricin (PPT), an analogue of L-glutamic acid, and two L-alanine residues. Upon removal of the L-alanine residues by intracellular peptidases, the PPT is released and is a potent inhibitor of glutamine synthetase (GS), a pivotal enzyme involved in ammonia assimilation and nitrogen metabolism (Ogawa et al., 1973). Synthetic PPT, the active ingredient in the herbicide Liberty\u2122 also is effective as a selection agent. Inhibition of GS in plants by PPT causes the rapid accumulation of ammonia and death of the plant cells.","Another example of a herbicide which is useful for selection of transformed cell lines is the broad spectrum herbicide glyphosate. Glyphosate inhibits the action of the enzyme EPSPS which is active in the aromatic amino acid biosynthetic pathway. Inhibition of this enzyme leads to starvation for the amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan and secondary metabolites derived thereof. U.S. Pat. No. 4,535,060 describes the isolation of EPSPS mutations which confer glyphosate resistance on the gene for EPSPS, aroA. The EPSPS gene was cloned from and mutations similar to those found in a glyphosate resistant aroA gene were introduced in vitro. Mutant genes encoding glyphosate resistant EPSPS enzymes are described in, for example, International Patent WO 97\/4103. Many other selectable markers are well known and may also be used.","Screenable markers are also well known. An example of a screenable marker trait is the enzyme luciferase. In the presence of the substrate luciferin, cells expressing luciferase emit light which can be detected on photographic or x-ray film, in a luminometer (or liquid scintillation counter), by devices that enhance night vision, or by a highly light sensitive video camera, such as a photon counting camera. These assays are nondestructive and transformed cells may be cultured further following identification. The photon counting camera is especially valuable as it allows one to identify specific cells or groups of cells which are expressing luciferase and manipulate those in real time. Another screenable marker which may be used in a similar fashion is the gene coding for green fluorescent protein.","Cells that survive the exposure to the selective agent, or cells that have been scored positive in a screening assay, may be cultured in media that supports regeneration of plants. In an exemplary embodiment, MS and N6 media may be modified by including further substances such as growth regulators. One such growth regulator is dicamba or 2,4-D. However, other growth regulators may be employed, including NAA, NAA+2,4-D or picloram. Media improvement in these and like ways has been found to facilitate the growth of cells at specific developmental stages. Tissue may be maintained on a basic media with growth regulators until sufficient tissue is available to begin plant regeneration efforts, or following repeated rounds of manual selection, until the morphology of the tissue is suitable for regeneration, at least 2 wk, then transferred to media conducive to maturation of embryoids. Cultures are transferred every 2 wk on this medium. Shoot development will signal the time to transfer to medium lacking growth regulators.","The transformed cells, identified by selection or screening and cultured in an appropriate medium that supports regeneration, will then be allowed to mature into plants. Developing plantlets are transferred to soiless plant growth mix, and hardened, e.g., in an environmentally controlled chamber, for example, at about 85% relative humidity, 600 ppm CO, and 25-250 microeinsteins m\/s of light. Plants may be matured in a growth chamber or greenhouse. Plants can be regenerated from about 6 wk to 10 months after a transformant is identified, depending on the initial tissue. During regeneration, cells are grown on solid media in tissue culture vessels. Illustrative embodiments of such vessels are petri dishes and Plant Cons. Regenerating plants can be grown at about 19 to 28\u00b0 C. After the regenerating plants have reached the stage of shoot and root development, they may be transferred to a greenhouse for further growth and testing.","Seeds on transformed plants may occasionally require embryo rescue due to cessation of seed development and premature senescence of plants. To rescue developing embryos, they are excised from surface-disinfected seeds 10-20 days post-pollination and cultured. An embodiment of media used for culture at this stage comprises MS salts, 2% sucrose, and 5.5 g\/l agarose. In embryo rescue, large embryos (defined as greater than 3 mm in length) are germinated directly on an appropriate media. Embryos smaller than that may be cultured for 1 wk on media containing the above ingredients along with 10-5M abscisic acid and then transferred to growth regulator-free medium for germination.","To confirm the presence of the exogenous DNA or \u201ctransgene(s)\u201d in the regenerating plants, a variety of assays may be performed. Such assays include, for example, \u201cmolecular biological\u201d assays, such as Southern and Northern blotting and PCR\u2122; \u201cbiochemical\u201d assays, such as detecting the presence of a protein product, e.g., by immunological means (ELISAs and Western blots) or by enzymatic function; plant part assays, such as leaf or root assays; and also, by analyzing the phenotype of the whole regenerated plant.","Frequently the expression of a gene product is determined by evaluating the phenotypic results of its expression. These assays also may take many forms including but not limited to analyzing changes in the chemical composition, morphology, or physiological properties of the plant. Chemical composition may be altered by expression of genes. Morphological changes may include a change in stature or thicker stalks. Most often changes in response of plants or plant parts to imposed treatments are evaluated under carefully controlled conditions termed bioassays.","In addition to direct transformation of a particular plant genotype with a construct prepared according to the current invention, transgenic plants may be made by crossing a plant having a selected DNA of the invention to a second plant lacking the construct. For example, a transgenic event can be introduced into a particular plant variety by crossing, without the need for ever directly transforming a plant of that given variety. Therefore, the current invention not only encompasses a plant directly transformed or regenerated from cells which have been transformed in accordance with the current invention, but also the progeny of such plants.","As used herein the term \u201cprogeny\u201d denotes the offspring of any generation of a parent plant prepared in accordance with the instant invention, wherein the progeny comprises a selected DNA construct. \u201cCrossing\u201d a plant to provide a plant line having one or more added transgenes relative to a starting plant line, as disclosed herein, is defined as the techniques that result in a transgene of the invention being introduced into a plant line by crossing a starting line with a donor plant line that comprises a transgene of the invention. To achieve this one could, for example, perform the following steps:\n\n","Introgression of a DNA element into a plant genotype is defined as the result of the process of backcross conversion. A plant genotype into which a DNA sequence has been introgressed may be referred to as a backcross converted genotype, line, inbred, or hybrid. Similarly a plant genotype lacking the desired DNA sequence may be referred to as an unconverted genotype, line, inbred, or hybrid.","Biofuel crop species: A plant that may be used to provide biomass for production of lignocellulosic-derived ethanol. Examples of such plants include switchgrass (), giant reed (), reed canarygrass (), sp., (), corn, sugarcane, sorghum, millet, ryegrass (sp.), timothy, (), forage soybeans, alfalfa, clover and other legumes, sunn hemp, kenaf, bahiagrass, bermudagrass, dallisgrass, pangolagrass, big bluestem, indiangrass, fescue (sp.), sp., , smooth bromegrass, orchardgrass, Kentucky bluegrass, poplar, willow, and agave, among others, as well as other crops such as wheat, rice, and grapes.","Expression: The combination of intracellular processes, including transcription and translation undergone by a coding DNA molecule such as a structural gene to produce a polypeptide.","Forage crops: Crops including grasses and legumes used as fodder or silage for livestock production.","Genetic Transformation: A process of introducing a DNA sequence or construct (e.g., a vector or expression cassette) into a cell or protoplast in which that exogenous DNA is incorporated into a chromosome or is capable of autonomous replication.","Heterologous: A sequence which is not normally present in a given host genome in the genetic context in which the sequence is currently found In this respect, the sequence may be native to the host genome, but be rearranged with respect to other genetic sequences within the host sequence. For example, a regulatory sequence may be heterologous in that it is linked to a different coding sequence relative to the native regulatory sequence.","Obtaining: When used in conjunction with a transgenic plant cell or transgenic plant, obtaining means either transforming a non-transgenic plant cell or plant to create the transgenic plant cell or plant, or planting transgenic plant seed to produce the transgenic plant cell or plant. Such a transgenic plant seed may be from an R0 transgenic plant or may be from a progeny of any generation thereof that inherits a given transgenic sequence from a starting transgenic parent plant.","Promoter: A recognition site on a DNA sequence or group of DNA sequences that provides an expression control element for a structural gene and to which RNA polymerase specifically binds and initiates RNA synthesis (transcription) of that gene.","R0 transgenic plant: A plant that has been genetically transformed or has been regenerated from a plant cell or cells that have been genetically transformed.","Regeneration: The process of growing a plant from a plant cell (e.g., plant protoplast, callus or explant).","Selected DNA: A DNA segment which one desires to introduce or has introduced into a plant genome by genetic transformation.","Transformation construct: A chimeric DNA molecule which is designed for introduction into a host genome by genetic transformation. Transformation constructs generally comprise all of the genetic elements necessary to direct the expression of one or more exogenous genes. In particular embodiments of the instant invention, it may be desirable to introduce a transformation construct into a host cell in the form of an expression cassette.","Transformed cell: A cell the DNA complement of which has been altered by the introduction of an exogenous DNA molecule into that cell.","Transgene: A segment of DNA which has been incorporated into a host genome or is capable of autonomous replication in a host cell and is capable of causing the expression of one or more coding sequences. Exemplary transgenes will provide the host cell, or plants regenerated therefrom, with a novel phenotype relative to the corresponding non-transformed cell or plant. Transgenes may be directly introduced into a plant by genetic transformation, or may be inherited from a plant of any previous generation which was transformed with the DNA segment.","Transgenic plant: A plant or progeny plant of any subsequent generation derived therefrom, wherein the DNA of the plant or progeny thereof contains an introduced exogenous DNA segment not naturally present in a non-transgenic plant of the same strain. The transgenic plant may additionally contain sequences which are native to the plant being transformed, but wherein the \u201cexogenous\u201d gene has been altered in order to alter the level or pattern of expression of the gene, for example, by use of one or more heterologous regulatory or other elements.","Vector: A DNA molecule designed for transformation into a host cell. Some vectors may be capable of replication in a host cell. A plasmid is an exemplary vector, as are expression cassettes isolated therefrom.","The following examples are included to demonstrate illustrative embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute one embodiment of modes for its practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the present disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","To clone orthologs of the MYB subfamily 4 genes in switchgrass, an AtMYB4 (SEQ ID NO:22) amino acid sequence was used to blast against the switchgrass EST database (Tobias et al., 2005). The ORF of the most homologous gene sequence from switchgrass (cv Alamo) was cloned into the pENTR_D topo vector using RT-PCR. An 836 bp full length cDNA was obtained. The sequence alignment of PvMYB4 with other MYB subfamily 4 members shows that PvMYB4 has a highly conserved R2-R3 domain at the N-terminal region, while the C-terminal domain is more divergent, both in sequence and length (). However, three typical protein motifs of the MYB subgroup 4 were identified at the C-terminal; \u201cLlsrGIDPxT\/SHRxI\/L\u201d, \u201cpdLNLD\/ELxiG\/S\u201d and \u201cCXCXCXC\u201d (Stracke et al., 2001; Fornal\u00e9 et al., 2006). A \u201cFLGLXV\/LLD\/GF\/YR\/SXLEMK\u201d motif was identified using the ClustalW sequence alignment tool (worldwideweb.ebi.ac.uk\/Tools\/msa\/clustalw2\/) (). The above motifs are termed the C1, C2, Zf and C4 motifs, respectively ().","A phylogenetic analysis was performed using the PhyML method and tools available at Phylogeny.fr: worldwideweb.phylogeny.fr to identify the most closely related R2R3-MYB factors within the subfamily 4 group (Dereeper et al., 2008). Most of the dicot and monocot R2R3-MYB subfamily 4 proteins are grouped into separate clades (). This suggests that the R2R3-MYB subfamily 4 proteins might have divergent biological functions in dicot and monocot plants. Phylogenetic analysis also shows that PvMYB4 is more closely related to ZmMYB42, ZmMYB38 and ZmMYB31 than to the other well-known phenylpropanoid\/lignin biosynthesis repressors such as AmMYB308, AtMYB4, and AtMYB32.","Sequencing of the PvMYB4 clones indicated the presence of at least five gene variants of PvMYB4, namely PvMYB4a (SEQ ID NO:1), 4b (SEQ ID NO:7), 4c (SEQ ID NO:9), 4d (SEQ ID NO:11) and 4e (SEQ ID NO:13), in the tetraploid outcrossing switchgrass genome (, B). A similar phenomenon has been reported for the switchgrass lignin biosynthesis gene PvCCR1 (Escamilla-Trevino et al., 2009). All constructs were made based on the PvMYB4a sequence.","Transcriptional repression activity was analyzed using a dual Luciferase reporter assay in protoplasts. When PvMYB4a (SEQ ID NO:1) was co-expressed with the PALO or CCoAOMT (caffeoyl CoA 3-O-methyltransferase) promoters driving a Luciferase reporter gene, Luciferase expression was repressed by almost 80-90% compared to the values obtained from these lignin pathway promoters in the absence of PvMYB4 expression ().","To test the tissue-specific expression pattern of PvMYB4 in switchgrass, total RNA was isolated from different tissues at the R1 developmental stage and qRT-PCR analysis was performed (Moore et al., 1991; Sarath et al., 2007). The PvMYB4 gene was expressed in all the tissues tested, with highest expression in leaf and leaf sheath (). In-situ hybridization analysis of young stem tissue sections indicated that PvMYB4 is expressed throughout the stem, including the parenchyma cells, vascular tissues and epidermis. The highest expression level appeared to be in vascular bundles (). To test whether PvMYB4 is localized to the nucleus, infiltration assays were performed of tobacco epidermal cells with a construct for expression of a PvMYB4: eGFP fusion protein. GFP fluorescence was shown to localize to the nucleus by confocal microscopy ().","Several R2-R3 MYB proteins from subfamily 4 have been reported to bind the AC elements in monolignol pathway gene promoters (Romero et al., 1998; Legay et al., 2007; Zhao et al., 2007). Use of electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) led to the conclusion that these proteins might bind to \u201cGKTWGGTR\u201d elements in vitro (Romero et al., 1998). The reverse complement sequence of \u201cGKTWGGTR\u201d is \u201cYACCWAMC\u201d with Y as T or C, W as T or A, and M as A or C. The possible elements can therefore be designated as \u201cT\/CACCT\/AA\/CC\u201d. AtMYB4 can bind to the AC-I (ACCTACC; SEQ ID NO:3, AC-II (ACCAACC; SEQ ID NO:4) and AC-III (ACCTAAC; SEQ ID NO:5) elements (Zhao et al., 2007). It also binds to the \u201cACCGCCC\u201d elements (MYB elements) found in its own promoter region (Zhao et al., 2007). EgMYB1 binds to a region of the promoter of the EgCAD (cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase) gene containing both the \u201cACCCACC\u201d and \u201cACCTACC\u201d elements (AC-I) (Legay et al., 2007).","To test whether PvMYB4 can bind to similar AC-rich elements, three repeats of the AC-I, AC-II, AC-III, and AC-IV (ACCAAAC; SEQ ID NO:6) elements () were cloned into the pLACZi vector immediately upstream of a pCYC1 minimal promoter driving the LacZ reporter gene, for expression in yeast (). Since PvMYB4 has transcriptional repression activity, PvMYB4 as a fusion with the GAL4 activation domain (AD) was cloned to generate a chimeric effector (). If PvMYB4 binds to the test AC-rich elements, it will block the expression of the LacZ reporter gene activated by the GAL4 AD. A R2R3-MYB transcriptional activator PtMYB4 (Bomal et al., 2008) and a bZip transcription factor HY5 (ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5) (Oyama et al., 1997) were used as positive and negative controls, respectively, along with the vector control containing only the GAL4-AD (). The positive control PtMYB4 activated the lacz reporter gene expression by about 50-100 fold compared to the vector and negative controls, indicating that the system is functional in yeast (). In contrast, PvMYB4 repressed the expression from the three AC-I, 3AC-II and 3AC-III elements fused to the Mini-pCyC1 promoter driving the lacZ reporter gene by about 50-80% compared to the vector and negative control (HY5) under the same conditions (). However, PvMYB4 did not repress transcription driven by the three AC-IV elements in yeast (), suggesting that it may not bind to the AC-IV element. PvMYB4 was cloned into the pDEST17 vector with a His tag fusion at the N-terminal, and the purified protein from extracts shown to bind to the AC-I, AC-II and AC-III elements in EMSA assays. No binding affinity of PvMYB4 to AC-IV was observed under the same conditions, which is consistent with the repression activity assay in yeast ().","To investigate the functions of the C-terminal motifs in PvMYB4 in more detail, different deletions of PvMYB4 were fused between the VP16 activation motif from herpes simplex virus protein VP16 (Sadowski et al., 1988) and the GAL4 AD (). The reporter construct was made by placing six GAL4-binding motifs in front of the pCYC1 minimal promoter driving the LacZ reporter gene. After expression of reporter and effector constructs in yeast, \u03b2-galactosidase assays indicated that the C1, C2, and C4 motifs all have transcriptional repression activities because the deletion of these motifs restored the transcriptional activation effects contributed to PvMYB4 by the VP16 activation motif. In contrast, the Zf motif () did not appear to have significant repression activity ().","A region with a high percentage of proline (P) and glutamate (Q) residues is located between the C1 and C2 motifs of PvMYB4, and most of the sequence variations were found in this area (, ). It has been reported that P-Q-rich and acidic-blob-type regions are associated with transcriptional activation domains (Ruden et al., 1991). To test this hypothesis, a fusion was created of the PQ motif (, box) with the GAL4 AD as an effector plasmid and was expressed in yeast with the 6GAL4-Mini-pCYC1:lacZ reporter construct. No transcriptional activation of \u03b2-galactosidase was detected (), indicating that the P-Q-rich region has no transcriptional activation activity.","To investigate the biological function of PvMYB4, it was over-expressed under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter in tobacco (MYB-OX). Several independent lines, such as #6, #9 and #16, showed relatively high expression of PvMYB4 transcripts (). Over-expression of PvMYB4 gave rise to the same phenotypes as observed previously for AmMYB308 and AtMYB4 in transgenic tobacco (Tamagnone et al., 1998; Jin et al., 2000), namely a reduction in plant stature and appearance of numerous white lesions on the mature leaves (). The latter phenotype has been linked to reduced levels of hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives (Elkind et al., 1990; Tamagnone et al., 1998).","The most abundant soluble phenolic compound in methanolic extracts of tobacco stems is chlorogenic acid (CGA, Rt 14.87 min), which exists with a minor isomer (Rt=14.37 min) (). Over-expression of PvMYB4 in tobacco caused an approximately 80% reduction in soluble CGA levels (FIGS. A,C). The most abundant ester-linked wall-bound phenolic compounds released from low temperature hydrolysis of tobacco stem cell walls are vanillin (Rt=19.63), syringyl aldehyde (Rt=22.59) and p-coumaric acid (p-CA, Rt=23.78). Over-expression of PvMYB4 significantly reduced the content of vanillin and p-CA compared to the wild type, but syringyl aldehyde levels were not significantly changed (, D).","The lignin content and composition of PvMYB4-OX transgenic tobacco plants were also significantly changed. Leaf petiole sections of PvMYB4-OX plants showed reduced staining with phloroglucinol-HCl (), suggesting an overall reduced level of lignin, confirmed by the reduction in acetyl bromide lignin level (). Maule staining showed a decrease in the red coloration of the xylem vessels, consistent with a reduction in S lignin (), and this was confirmed by thioacidolysis analysis of lignin monomer yield (). The latter indicated a reduction in lignin content of from 40-60% in the PvMYB4-OX over-expressing lines compared to controls (). However, overall the G units were reduced more than the S units, leading to an increased S\/G ratio in the MYB4 over-expressors ().","To generate switchgrass PvMYB4-OX lines, the full length PvMYB4a open reading frame was cloned into the pANIC2B binary vector fused with an AcV5 epitope tag (Monsma and Blissard, 1995) at the C-terminal and driven by the maize ZmUbi promoter. The hygromycin (hph) resistance gene was used as selectable marker for transformation (). Embryonic callus generated from immature inflorescences of switchgrass cv Alamo line ST2 was transformed by -mediated transformation. The transformation process, based on modifications of previously published protocols (Somleva et al., 2002; Xi et al., 2009), is illustrated in . The ST2 line was specifically selected for its high tissue culture response. Since the ST2 line is vegetatively propagated by tillers, all the lines are in the same genetic background, an important point for a highly heterozygous outcrossing species.","Genomic DNA PCR analysis showed that transgenic lines 2A and 2B could serve as appropriate controls because only the hygromycin resistance gene portion of the T-DNA was integrated into the genome (, B).","To confirm the over-expression of the PvMYB4 gene in the transgenic plants, two primers, HS543 and HS544, which cover the PvMYB4 ORF and AcV5 tag sequence, were used for qRT-PCR analysis (Table 1). The selected PvMYB4-OX lines exhibited a 10-12 fold increase in PvMYB4 expression () in transgenic switchgrass lines 1a-1e. The HS360 and HS361 primer pairs were designed from the 3\u2032-UTR region of the PvMYB4 sequence to determine expression of the endogenous PvMYB4 genes in switchgrass (). The endogenous PvMYB4 gene was repressed in the transgenic plants, indicating a similar self-repression feedback regulatory network as described for AtMYB4 in (Zhao et al., 2007) ().","Over-expression of PvMYB4 in switchgrass had dramatic effects on plant morphology. The PvMYB4-OX transgenic plants showed a reduction in plant height (by about 40% on average) but more tillers (up to a 2.5-fold increase) (, B). In contrast to the PvMYB4-OX tobacco plants, no white lesions were observed on the leaves.","A. PvMYB4 Over-Expression Reduces Lignin Levels, Alters Cell-Wall Phenolic Levels, and Reduces Recalcitrance in Transgenic Switchgrass","The lignin levels in the middle parts of the different internodes of E4 stage stems of PvMYB4-OX and control switchgrass plants were first evaluated by staining with phloroglucinol-HCl and Maule reagent. Clearly, total lignin levels (phloroglucinol-HCl staining, red color) and S lignin (Maule staining, reddish-brown color) were reduced in all the internodes of the transgenic plants, especially the mature I1 and I2 internodes (). Furthermore, although the structure of the vascular bundles remained the same, their size was significantly reduced in the transgenic plants based on the measurement of vascular bundles from internode 2 (, ). Tillers of PvMYB4-OX lines were thinner than those of the controls ().","Total lignin levels in whole stems of E4 stage plants were reduced by about 40-50% (determined as AcBr lignin) or 60-70% (determined by thioacidolysis) as a result of over-expression of PvMYB4 (, B). However, in contrast to the PvMYB4-OX tobacco lines, the S\/G ratio was only slightly increased (). The ester linked p-CA\/FA ratio was reduced about 50% compared to the control lines (). Since both the lignin content and the ester linked p-CA\/FA ratio are reduced in the PvMYB4-OX transgenic switchgrass lines, these lines could exhibit significantly higher saccharification efficiency than the control lines based on previous observations of natural variation (Shen et al., 2009b). To test this, sugar release from cell wall residues (CWR) was measured by enzymatic saccharification without acid pre-treatment. The total sugar released from the PvMYB4-OX transgenic switchgrass lines as a function of total available cell wall sugar levels was about three-fold higher from the PvMYB4 over-expressing lines than from the controls (, F). Dry biomass production was estimated under greenhouse condition, the transgenic PvMYB4-OX lines have less (1A, 1B and 1E lines), similar (line 1C) or about 20% increased (line 1D) biomass depending on the different transgenic lines. ().","B. Downstream Target Genes of PvMYB4","Given that PvMYB4 represses phenylpropanoid metabolism and lignin content in both switchgrass and tobacco, and represses transcription of the PALO and CCoAOMT7 promoters in vitro, the transgenic PvMYB4-OX tobacco system was used to gain a broader picture of the downstream gene targets. Total RNA was extracted from the leaves of control and PvMYB4-OX tobacco lines. First strand cDNA was synthesized and quantitative RT-PCR primer pairs (Table 1) were designed for each of the genes encoding the enzymes of phenylpropanoid and monolignol biosynthesis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0150"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE\u20031"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Primer\u2003sequences"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Primer",{},{}]},{"entry":["code","Primer\u2003name","Sequence\u2003(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"PvMYB4\u2003cloning"]},{"entry":["HS010","MYB1_6497.F","caccATGGGGCGGTCGCCGTGCTG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003111)"]},{"entry":["HS011","MYB1_6497.R","TCAAACAAAAAAAAACAGCCCAAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003112)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},"Genomic\u2003DNA\u2003PCR"]},{"entry":["HS043","Zmubi.pro.F2","TCTTTTGTCGATGCTCACC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003113)"]},{"entry":["HS314","HS314.MYB1.R1","TCACTTCATCTCGAGGCCTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003114)"]},{"entry":[{},"HPH.F","AAGGAATCGGTCAATACACTACATGG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003115)"]},{"entry":[{},"HPH.R","AAGACCAATGCGGAGCATATACG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003116)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},"In\u2003Situ\u2003Hybridization"]},{"entry":[{},"PvMYB_T7_F","GCGTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGTGCTGCGAGAAGGCGCAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003117)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvMYB_T7_R","GCGTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGTCATCTCGAGGCCTCTGAAG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003118)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvMYB_F","TGCTGCGAGAAGGCGCAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003119)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvMYB_R","TCATCTCGAGGCCTCTGAAG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003120)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},"PvMYB4\u2003qRT-PCR\u2003in\u2003switchgrass"]},{"entry":["HS543","PvMYB4.F","TCGGCATGCTCCTCGACTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003121)"]},{"entry":["HS544","AcV5.R","ACCAGCCGCTCGCATCTTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003122)"]},{"entry":["HS360","PvMYB1_798F","AGGCCTCGAGATGAAGTGAAAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003123)"]},{"entry":["HS361","PvMYB1_859R","AGCCCAACAAACAAACGAAATT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003124)"]},{"entry":["HS126","MYB_7X_QRTF1","CTCAATCTCGACCTCTGCATCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003125)"]},{"entry":["HS127","MYB_7X_QRTR1","ACGAGCTCCTGGTCCTCTTCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003126)"]},{"entry":["HS334","MYBqRTR1","ATGAGCTCCTGGTCCTCTTCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003127)"]},{"entry":["HS335","MYB.R3","GAGCTCCTGGTCCTCTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003128)"]},{"entry":["HS181","PAL_F","CATATAGTGTGCGTGCGTGTGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003129)"]},{"entry":["HS182","PAL_R","CTGGCCCGCCAATCG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003130)"]},{"entry":["HS090","C4H1_1534F","GGGCAGTTCAGCAACCAGAT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003131)"]},{"entry":["HS091","C4H1_1611R","CGCGTTTCCGGGACTCTAG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003132)"]},{"entry":["HS094","C3H1_739F","TTGAGATGGTTGTGTCCGCTTA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003133)"]},{"entry":["HS095","C3H1_803R","AGGCGGTCCCTTCTCTCATT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003134)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCOMT_F461","CAACCGCGTGTTCAACGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003135)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCOMT_R534","CGGTGTAGAACTCGAGCAGCTT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003136)"]},{"entry":["HS108","F5H_1720F","CTCTTCTATTTGTGCGTGTAACTGTGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003137)"]},{"entry":["HS109","F5H_1792R","CAGCCCTATAGCATCGACATGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003138)"]},{"entry":[{},"4CL1_1179_F","CGAGCAGATCATGAAAGGTTACC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003139)"]},{"entry":[{},"4CL1_1251_R","CAGCCAGCCGTCCTTGTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003140)"]},{"entry":["HS100","CCOMT_966F","CCGTCTTTCTTTTTTTGGCTCTT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003141)"]},{"entry":["HS101","CCOMT_1029R","GCATGAAAATGATGACAGTTTCCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003142)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCCR1.112_F","GCGTCGTGGCTCGTCAA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003143)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCCR1.187_R","TCGGGTCATCTGGGTTCCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003144)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCAD_F116","TCACATCAAGCATCCACCATCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003145)"]},{"entry":[{},"PvCAD_R184","GTTCTCGTGTCCGAGGTGTGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003146)"]},{"entry":[{},"HCT_973_F","GCAGAAGGAGCAGCAGTCATC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003147)"]},{"entry":[{},"HCT_1035_R","CGAGCGGCAATAGTCGTTGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003148)"]},{"entry":["HS545","PvGA20ox1a.F","CACCATGCACCACCTCTCAA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003149)"]},{"entry":["HS546","PvGA20ox1a.R","ATGCAAATCCCCATCCAGATAT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003150)"]},{"entry":["HS551","PvGA20ox2a.F","TGGGCCGGGATTTCG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003151)"]},{"entry":["HS552","PvGA20ox2a.R","CCATGATCGTCAGCGACAAA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003152)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},"qRT-PCR\u2003primers\u2003for\u2003PvMYB4-OX\u2003transgenic\u2003tobacco"]},{"entry":["HS368","NtGA20ox1.F","TGTAGCACGAGAACTTCC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003153)"]},{"entry":["HS369","NtGA20ox1.R","ACGGCATGCTTCACCAACA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003154)"]},{"entry":["HS384","NtRSG1.F","GGCCACGTCCGCATTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003155)"]},{"entry":["HS385","NtRSG1.R","GCATGGTGACTACCACATTGGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003156)"]},{"entry":[{},"PAL.F","GACAAAGTGTTCACAGCAATG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003157)"]},{"entry":[{},"PAL.R","TAACAGATWGGAAGAGGAGCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003158)"]},{"entry":[{},"C4H.F","TCAACACAATGGTGGAATGC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003159)"]},{"entry":[{},"C4H.R","ACTTTGGGACGTTTGGTTCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003160)"]},{"entry":[{},"4CL.F","CTTCTCAACCATCCCAACATT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003161)"]},{"entry":[{},"4CL.R","CTAACAACAAAAGCCACTGGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003162)"]},{"entry":[{},"HCT.F","GGCTGCCAATCCATGATGCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003163)"]},{"entry":[{},"HCT.R","GCAACAGATTGACTGCCATCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003164)"]},{"entry":[{},"C3H.F","TGGCTGAGGTGATCAAGAAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003165)"]},{"entry":[{},"C3H.R","TATGGGAGGTTGGGGAAGTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003166)"]},{"entry":[{},"CCoAOMT.F","ACACCCTATGGAATGGATCA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003167)"]},{"entry":[{},"CCoAOMT.R","CCTTGTTGAGTTCCAATACGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003168)"]},{"entry":[{},"F5H.F","GAAACTCTACGACTTCACCC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003169)"]},{"entry":[{},"F5H.R","TGACTTTGCCGGAATATGGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003170)"]},{"entry":[{},"COMT.F","CCTGCAAATGGGAAGGTGAT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003171)"]},{"entry":[{},"COMT.R","CAGTCCTTTCTTTGCCTCCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003172)"]},{"entry":[{},"CAD.F","CTCGGGAGAAAGAGCATCAC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003173)"]},{"entry":[{},"CAD.R","CCTCTCCATTGCAGTGTTGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003174)"]},{"entry":[{},"CCR.F","ATGTGACGAAGCCAAGGGTAA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003175)"]},{"entry":[{},"CCR.R","GTAGGAATTGGAAGGTGACCT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003176)"]},{"entry":[{},"qCHS.F","CACCGCTGTCACGTTTCGT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003177)"]},{"entry":[{},"qCHS.R","AGGGCTTGCCCAACTAAACTATC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003178)"]},{"entry":[{},"qCHI.F","TGCAGAGAGTCAGGCCATTG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003179)"]},{"entry":[{},"qCHI.R","CGGCGGGAAGGTTTCATT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003180)"]},{"entry":[{},"qFLS.F","GCGAGAAGTTGCGGAGAAGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003181)"]},{"entry":[{},"qFLS.R","CATCATTTCATGGGCTTCTAACC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003182)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},"Oligonucleotides\u2003used\u2003in\u2003electrophoretic\u2003mobility"]},{"entry":[{},{},"shift\u2003assays\u2003(EMSAs)"]},{"entry":["HS428","AC1.F","CGGTACCAGTCCACCTACCGCCACCTACCGCCACCTACCGCTGTTCTCGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003183)"]},{"entry":["HS429","AC1.R","TCGAGAACAGCGGTAGGTGGCGGTAGGTGGCGGTAGGTGGACTGGTACCG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003184)"]},{"entry":["HS480","AC2.F","CGGTACCAGTCCACCAACCGCCACCAACCGCCACCAACCGCTGTTCTCGA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003185)"]},{"entry":["HS481","AC2.R","TCGAGAACAGCGGTTGGTGGCGGTTGGTGGCGGTTGGTGGACTGGTACCG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003186)"]},{"entry":["HS484","AC3.F","CCAGTCCACCTAACTCTACCTAACTCTACCTAACGCTGTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003187)"]},{"entry":["HS485","AC3.R","GAACAGCGTTAGGTAGAGTTAGGTAGAGTTAGGTGGACTGG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003188)"]},{"entry":["HS400","AC4.F","CCAGTCCACCAAACTCTACCAAACTCTACCAAACGCTGTTC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003189)"]},{"entry":["HS401","AC4.R","GAACAGCGTTTGGTAGAGTTTGGTAGAGTTTGGTGGACTGG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003190)"]},{"entry":["HS444","AtGA20ox2.AC2.F","CTTAACTCTTAACTGGTCGAACCAACCATGAATGATTTGGGCATAAT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003191)"]},{"entry":["HS445","AtGA20ox2.AC2.R","ATTATGCCCAAATCATTCATGGTTGGTTCGACCAGTTAAGAGTTAAG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003192)"]},{"entry":["HS440","AtGA20ox2.AC4.F","ATTATAAGAAAGATTAAAAAACCAAACAAATGTACACTAACATGACT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200319)"]},{"entry":["HS441","AtGA20ox2.AC4.R","AGTCATGTTAGTGTACATTTGTTTGGTTTTTTAATCTTTCTTATAAT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200323)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In the transgenic control lines, F5H (ferulate 5-hydroxylase), CCoAOMT and HCT (hydroxycinnamoyl CoA: shikimate hydroxycinnamoyl transferase) genes showed overall lower transcript levels compared to other genes (, B). The transcript levels of PAL, C4H, C3\u2032H (coumaroyl shikimate 3\u2032-hydroxylase), 4CL (4-coumarate:CoA ligase), COMT (caffeic acid 3-O-methyltransferase), CCR (cinnamoyl CoA reductase) and CAD genes were reduced by at least 70% in the PvMYB4-OX tobacco lines () and 50% in the switchgrass lines (). Because of potential cross-talk and\/or spillover between lignin and flavonoid pathways in plants down-regulated in lignin biosynthesis (Besseau et al., 2007), genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis (chalcone synthase, chalcone isomerase and flavonol synthase) were also analyzed, but none of these was affected by over-expression of PvMYB4 ().","A reduced-growth phenotype has been reported in transgenic plants of several species over-expressing different MYB subfamily 4 genes (Tamagnone et al., 1998; Jin et al., 2000; Forml\u00e9 et al., 2006; Fornal et al., 2010), suggesting a common genetic regulatory mechanism. Many plant mutants with dwarf or reduced-growth phenotypes are defective in the biosynthesis or perception of hormones such as gibberellins (Hedden and Proebsting, 1999; Thomas and Sun, 2004) or brassinosteroids (Fujioka and Sakurai, 1997). Gibberellic acid (GA) was applied to the PvMYB4-OX tobacco lines. The application of exogenous GArescued the growth phenotype of the PvMYB4-OX lines, suggesting possible defects in GA synthesis in the transgenic tobacco plants ().","To test if PvMYB4 is involved in genetic regulation of the gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis pathway, relative gene expression level changes using qRT-PCR analysis was assessed. GA20-ox is a key enzyme for synthesis of the bioactive form of GA, and the most highly expressed form in tobacco leaves is GA20-ox1 (Gallego-Giraldo et al., 2007). GA20-ox1 transcript levels were repressed by 98% in the leaf tissues of the PvMYB4-OX lines (). At the same time, transcripts encoding a bZIP transcription factor, NtRSG, that activates GA biosynthesis pathway genes (Fukazawa et al., 2000), were also repressed, by about 40-50% (). Expression of putative PvGA20-ox1 and PvGA20-ox2 transcripts in the PVMYB4-OX transgenic switchgrass lines was also assessed, and the expression of PvGA20-ox2 was repressed about 50% while PvGA20-ox1 was not affected ().","C. PvMYB4 Binds Directly to an AC Element in the AtGA20-OX2 Promoter","The present and previous studies indicate that subfamily 4 MYB proteins directly bind the AC cis-elements in downstream monolignol biosynthesis gene promoters (Legay et al., 2007; Sonbol et al., 2009). The above demonstration of down-regulation of GA20-ox expression raised the question of whether PvMYB4 also binds to the promoter of this gene. Gel shift assays were performed to test for possible direct binding of PvMYB4 to different AtGA20-ox2 promoter regions in vitro. Analysis of the AtGA20-ox2 promoter 1500 bp upstream of the transcription start site identified an AC-II (\u22121200 bp) and an AC-IV (\u2212150 bp) element. EMSA assays indicated that the PvMYB4 protein binds directly to the AC-II element but not to the AC-IV element (). This is consistent with the direct binding of PvMYB4 to the synthetic AC-II elements (). Binding of PvMYB4 to the AC elements in the GA20-ox promoter appears to inhibit expression of the gene.","A. Plant Materials and Growth Conditions","Tobacco (cv. Xanthi N N) and switchgrass (L. cv. Alamo) were grown in the greenhouse under standard conditions [temperature range 25-29\u00b0 C. with a 16-hour day from 6:00 to 22:00 hours facilitated by supplementary lighting (parabolic aluminized reflector, 125-55 \u03bcmol\u00b7m) and relative humidity 77-22%, average 51%]. Plants were watered two to three times per week, with fertilizer (Peters 20-10-20, 100 ppm) added in the last watering. For tissue-specific gene expression pattern analysis, roots, leaves, leaf sheaths, internodes, and flowers were collected at the reproduction (R1) developmental stage (Moore et al., 1991). Samples were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and kept at \u221280\u00b0 C. for storage, or were ground to powder in a freezer mill (SPEX SamplePrep, Metuchen, N.J.) under liquid nitrogen for further RNA isolation and analysis of lignin and soluble and wall-bound phenolics.","For treatment with GA, 4-week old tobacco plants were transplanted into 4-L pots and grown in a chamber at 25\u00b0 C. and 12-hour light (irradiance 180 \u03bcmol\u00b7mfrom both fluorescent and incandescent bulbs) and 12-hour dark cycle. Plants were watered with tap water containing 10mol\/L GAtwo times per week for 4 weeks.","B. Analysis of Lignin, Phenolic Compounds and Sugar Release Efficiency","Cell wall residues (CWR) were prepared by sequentially extracting tobacco stems and switchgrass whole tillers with chloroform\/methanol (1:1), 100% methanol, 50% methanol, and water (three times each). Fifteen milligram of lyophilized sample was used for lignin analysis. The acetyl bromide method was employed to determine total lignin content, and thioacidolysis followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify and quantify lignin-derived monomers. Soluble phenolics were extracted from 30.0 mg freeze-dried tissue powder with 1.5 mL 50% methanol plus 1.5% acetic acid for 12 hours at room temperature. One hundred milligrams of extractive-free CWR were used for analysis of esterified cell wall-bound phenolics using low-temperature alkaline hydrolysis. About 100 mg and 125 mg of CWR were used for determination of total sugar release and enzymatic saccharification without acid pre-treatment, respectively. Full details of all analytical methods have been described previously (Shen et al., 2009b).","C. RNA Isolation and qRT-PCR","Total RNA was isolated with an Rneasy Mini Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, Calif.). RNA quality was analyzed with an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. Two \u03bcg (tobacco) and 3 \u03bcg (switchgrass) of total RNA were treated with Dnase (Applied Biosystems, Ambion, Austin, Tex.) for 1 hour to remove genomic DNA contamination and then used for reverse transcription with a reverse transcript III kit (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, Calif.) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The cDNA samples were diluted 20-fold and 2 \u03bcl diluted cDNA samples were used as the qRT-PCR templates. qRT-PCR and data analysis were as described previously (Karlen et al., 2007; Shen et al., 2009b). Primer pairs used for qRT-PCR are listed in Table 1.","D. Transcriptional Repression and Domain Mapping in Yeast","The pYES2 (Invitrogen) and pGBT-9 (Clontech Laboratories, Mountain View, Calif.) vectors were used to construct the effector plasmids for transcriptional repression activity assay and the effector plasmids for motif mapping assays, respectively. The pLacZi based vectors (3AC-1 and 3AC-II) were a gift from Dr. Malcolm Campbell (University of Toronto) (Patzlaff et al., 2003). The reporter plasmids were first integrated into the genome of yeast strain YM4721 purchased from ATCC (American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Va.) as described by yeast protocols handbook (Clontech) to make the reporter strains. About 1 \u03bcg of effector plasmid were transformed into the yeast reporter strains with the EZ-Yeast transformation kit (MP Biomedicals, Solon, Ohio). \u03b2-Galactosidase assays were preformed as described in the yeast protocols handbook (Clontech).","E. In Situ Hybridization","Primers spanning 757 bp of the PvMYB4 open reading frame were designed using PrimerQuest (worldwideweb.idtdna.com\/Scitools\/Applications\/Primerquest\/). After the cDNA template was obtained, separate reactions were performed for making the sense and antisense probes. The T7 promoter sequence was added in front of the reverse primer and the PCR reaction was conducted with the forward primers without T7 to make an antisense probe. In the same way, T7 promoter was added to the front of the forward primer in combination with the reverse primer without T7 to make the sense control probe. The specific primers used for PvMYB4 are listed in Table 1. The probe was synthesized by in vitro transcription with a MAXIscript Kit (AM1308-AM1326) with 0.4-0.6 \u03bcg of template DNA obtained as described above. Digoxigenin-11-uridine-5\u2032-triphosphate (DIG-11-UTP, Roche Applied Science) was used for the labeling. The quality and quantity of the probes were checked with a Bioanalyzer.","The tissue preparation including fixation, dehydration, and paraffin embedding were as described previously (Jackson, 1991). After sectioning, the switchgrass stem sections were rehydrated with an ethanol to water series after the paraffin had been removed by two 10-minute incubations in Histo-clear (National Diagnostics). After brief equilibration in 0.1 M triethanolamine, the tissue was acetylated with 0.25% acetic anhydride in 0.1 M triethanolamine for 10 minutes. Sections were then washed twice with 1\u00d7PBS buffer for 5 minutes before and after triethanolamine treatment. Prehybridization, in situ hybridization, and imaging methods were as described previously (Zhou et al., 2010).","F. Dual Luciferase Assay",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0169"},"i":["Arabidopsis ","Arabidopsis "]},"G. Cell Imaging and Histochemical Staining","Switchgrass internode samples and tobacco leaf petioles were collected in the greenhouse and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. These samples were then cut with a Leica CM 1850 cryostat at \u221220\u00b0 C. and prepared for microscopy as described previously (Nakashima et al., 2008). Phloroglucinol-HCl staining and Maule staining were carried out as described (Fu et al., 2011). Ultraviolet absorption microspectrophotometry was performed as described (Nakashima et al., 2008). Photographs were taken using a Nikon DXM 1200 color camera attached to a Nikon microphot-FX microscope system with ACT-1 software (Nikon, Japan). Tobacco leave infiltration was performed as described (Sparkes et al., 2006). Imaging of GFP fluorescence by confocal microscopy was performed as described (Wang et al., 2008).","H. Tissue Culture and Transformation","Tobacco (cv. Xanthi NN) was transformed by the leaf-disc method (Horsch et al., 1985). Leaf discs from a tobacco plant grown in a Magenta box were incubated with (AGL1) harboring the MYB construct for 20 minutes. The leaf discs were then blotted dry on filter paper and plated on co-cultivation medium (MS basal medium, 4.3 g\/L; Gamborg B5 vitamins 1,000\u00d7 stock, 1 ml\/L; sucrose, 30 g\/L; MgCl, 10 mM; acetosyringone, 100 \u03bcM; MES, 0.6 g\/L, pH 5.8) for co-cultivation for 4 days in the dark. Leaf discs were transferred to regeneration medium (MS basal medium, 4.3 g\/L; Gamborg's B5 vitamins 1,000\u00d7 stock, 1 ml\/L; sucrose, 30 g\/L; BAP, 1 mg\/L; NAA, 0.1 mg\/L; hygromycin, 25 \u03bcg\/L; ticarcillin 250 \u03bcg\/L; amoxicillin, 400 \u03bcg\/L; MES, 0.6 g\/L, pH 5.8) after co-cultivation. Leaf discs were sub-cultured every 2 weeks in regeneration medium until plant regeneration. Transgenic plants were maintained in the greenhouse for analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0174"},"i":"Agrobacterium"},"I. Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays","PvMYB4a was cloned into the pDEST17 expression vector by the Gateway cloning method (Invitrogen). After sequencing, the plasmid was transformed into BL21 DE3 competent cells. IPTG was added to induce expression of PvMYB4. The recombinant protein was purified with the MagneHis\u2122 Protein Purification System (Promega Corporation, Madison, Wis.) then concentrated with an Amicon Ultra-15 Centrifugal Filter (Millipore Corporation, Billerica, Mass.). About 700-1000 ng of purified PvMYB4 protein was used for EMSA in each reaction. The probes were labeled by annealing biotin-labeled olignucleotides or PCR products, then purified with a gel extraction kit (QIAGEN). Oligonucleotides used for EMSA are listed in Table 1. Binding conditions were 12 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 20 mM NaCl, 50 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl, 1 mM DTT, 0.2 mM EDTA, 2.5% glycerol, 1 mM \u03b2-ME, 0.05% NP-40 and 2 fmol biotin-labeled probes. The samples were loaded and run in a 6% DNA retardant gel (Invitrogen) in the cold room after the reactions had been incubated at 4\u00b0 C. for 30 minutes. The DNA was transferred onto Nylon membranes and signal detected with a LightShift\u00ae Chemiluminescent EMSA Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Rockford, Ill.) using standard protocols.","All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.","The references listed below are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they supplement, explain, provide a background for, or teach methodology, techniques, and\/or composition employed herein.\n\n"],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS","I. PRODUCTION OF ETHANOL FROM LIGNOCELLULOSIC BIOMASS","II. PLANT TRANSFORMATION CONSTRUCTS","III. ANTISENSE AND RNAi CONSTRUCTS","IV. METHODS FOR GENETIC TRANSFORMATION","V. PRODUCTION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF STABLY TRANSFORMED PLANTS","VI. BREEDING PLANTS OF THE INVENTION","VII. DEFINITIONS","VIII. EXAMPLES","Example 1","Switchgrass PvMYB4 Belongs to the R2-R3MYB Subfamily 4","Example 2","PvMYB4 is a Transcriptional Repressor and is Expressed in the Vascular Bundles of Switchgrass","Example 3","The PvMYB4 Protein Binds to the AC Elements in the Genes Involved in the Lignin Biosynthesis Pathway","Example 4","Expression of PvMYB4 in Transgenic Tobacco","Example 5","Over-Expression of PvMYB4 in Switchgrass","Example 6","Materials and Methods","REFERENCES"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included to further demonstrate certain aspects of the present invention. The invention may be better understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination with the detailed description of specific embodiments presented herein. Asterisks on tops of the bars of figures indicate values that were determined by the Student's t-test to be significantly different from the wild type or its relevant control (p<0.05).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1C","sub":"\u2014"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2B","sub":"\u2014"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D","i":"Arabidopsis "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4G","u":["AD","Pt","Pv","HY"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-8C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-9C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A-10C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A-11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A-12F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A-14F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A-15B","sub":["\u2014","\u2014"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
