---
title: Ballistic missile phase categorization technique
abstract: A computer-implemented analysis method is provided for identifying a flight trajectory of a bogey relative to earth's surface. The method includes a first step of obtaining first and second altitudes and velocities of the bogey separated by a first time interval. The second step calculates a first difference between the first and second velocities divided by the first time interval to obtain an acceleration vector. The third step calculates an acceleration magnitude from the acceleration vector. The remaining steps characterize the vectors and magnitude to report whether the bogey represents a ballistic projectile in a particular phase of Boost, Apogee or Descent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650000&OS=08650000&RS=08650000
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08650000
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120214
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention is a Continuation-in-Part, claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/930,168 filed Dec. 8, 2010 and assigned Navy Case 99970, which claims the benefit of priority, pursuant to 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119, from provisional application 61\/336,131 filed Jan. 15, 2010.","The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The invention relates generally to categorization of aerial bogeys. In particular, the invention relates to techniques to distinguish between ballistic and flat trajectory airborne vehicles and categorize the ballistic vehicles accordingly for appropriate interception response.","An unidentified aerial object or \u201cbogey\u201d represents a prospective threat to a defended asset. To intercept the threat as a target, the defender must categorize ballistic trajectories on the basis of intermittent observation of an object's trajectory. This has represented a difficult problem by conventional analysis techniques using observably available data.","Conventional techniques for categorizing intermittently observed object trajectories yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular, various exemplary embodiments provide an indication of apparent acceleration direction with respect to an object's local horizontal plane associated with the intermittently observed object trajectory.","Various exemplary embodiments provide a computer-implemented analysis method to identify a flight trajectory of a bogey relative to earth's surface. The method includes a first step of obtaining first and second altitudes and velocities of the bogey separated by a first time interval. The second step calculates a first difference between the first and second velocities divided by the first time interval to obtain an acceleration vector. The third step calculates an acceleration magnitude from the acceleration vector. The remaining steps characterize the vectors and magnitude to report whether the bogey represents a ballistic projectile in a particular phase of Boost, Apogee or Descent. Various additional embodiments provide transformations to aid in processing the vector information.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention, the components, process steps, and\/or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems, computing platforms, computer programs, and\/or general purpose machines.","In addition, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature, such as hardwired devices, or the like, may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) or a floating point gate array (FPGA) or other related component.","Conventional techniques for bogey identification rely on additional information beyond observations of the object's trajectory. Conventional techniques include independent indicators that the object's trajectory is accelerating or that the object's altitude is above earth's surface. Such techniques potentially assume that the object's behavior is associated with the object's position. This condition is not always valid, which can lead to interception failure. The instant disclosure describes a technique for categorizing ballistic tracks based on a sequence of system reports of a target's velocity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","130","140","145","150","155","160"],"smallcaps":["OOST","SCENT","ESCENT"]},"For the notional diagram view , the Aand Dphases correspond to ballistic motion phases of the trajectory. Observed velocity and acceleration vector quantities have distinct characteristics during each phase:","B\u2014During boost mode  until burnout , acceleration points up, close to the direction of the velocity, which may approach vertical in the upward direction.","A\u2014During coast  (after boost) and through apogee , acceleration points down, while velocity gradually changes from up to horizontal.","D\u2014During descent , both quantities point down, with velocity changing from horizontal to potentially near vertical down.","In the diagram view , lower arrows  on the V-line indicate the velocity direction, while upper arrows  on the A-line indicate the acceleration direction. For aircraft trajectories having constant velocity, the acceleration is substantially zero (for all directions, in comparison to a ballistic missile). These considerations enable development of a procedure to distinguish between ballistic and non-ballistic type trajectories.","The following information describes an algorithmic process for calculating the velocity and acceleration directions of a bogey, referred to herein as a \u201ctarget\u201d generally. The process starts with an observed (or calculated) velocity data stream. The process then tests those values to determine transition from Bphase to Aintervals for purpose of categorizing the velocity data stream as representative of a ballistic-type trajectory. The analysis assumes that input velocity stream is or can be represented in the coordinate system horizontal to the earth surface at the target's position.","An observed target's velocity components can be transformed from the observed position and velocity coordinates to the target's coordinate system using supplementary formulae described subsequently. Within the target's frame, both the Flight Path Angle (FPA) and the Acceleration Path Angle (APA) formulae indicated herein may be applied to the transformed velocity coordinates.","The relative processes considered are described herein. Velocity vector components are provided in the axial (x), lateral (y) and vertical (z) directions for time increments denoting previous (i\u22121) and instant (i) described as arrays:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","}}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","}}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","}}}}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and"}}},"br":{},"sub":["i-1 ","i ","x,i","y,i ","z,i","i"]},"When starting with position and velocity coordinates, the altitude can be determined directly from the position components and supplementary knowledge of the local earth's radius. Many different algorithms exist for doing this. In practice, the accuracy of altitude determination may affect the performance of the algorithmic process provided in the various exemplary embodiments when the velocity data are not initially provided in the target local horizontal coordinate system.","Based on these velocity vectors, the following steps can be performed:","(a) calculate flight path angle (also denoted as variable \u03b8 for under transform) in eqn. (1) for the instant time step (i) as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["FPA","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sign","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}]}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"(b) calculate acceleration in eqns. (2), (3) and (4) for three directions as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":"-"},{"msub":[{"mi":["t","i"]},{"mi":"t","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"-"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":"-"},{"msub":[{"mi":["t","i"]},{"mi":"t","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"-"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":"-"},{"msub":[{"mi":["t","i"]},{"mi":"t","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"-"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}]}}},"br":{}},"(c) based on the previous step, calculate acceleration path angle in eqn. (5) for the instant time step (i) as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["APA","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sign","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["x","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["y","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mrow":{"mi":["z","i"],"mo":","},"mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}]}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"(d) calculate the magnitude of acceleration in eqn. (5) for the instant time step (i) as total root sum square:\n\n=\u221a{square root over ()}\u2003\u2003(6)\n","(e) apply logic check to determine ballistic phase for a bogey that represents a missile (rather than an alternate aerial platform), initially for identifying the interval immediately following launch: For example, if the acceleration magnitude aat the relevant time step exceeds a boost acceleration threshold to overcome gravity such that |a\u2212g|>g, APA exceeds acceleration-up angle, and FPA exceeds a flying-up angle threshold, then the target is in candidate Bphase for parameters having such values that reach those relevant thresholds. This can be coded as: (a>boost_acceleration) AND (APA>acceleration_up_angle) AND (FPA>flying_up_angle), THEN the conclusion can be rendered target_is_candidate_boost_phase for these conditions.","(f) continue to apply logic check, for determining maximum altitude: For example, if the acceleration difference is less than the gravitational threshold such that absolute acceleration approximates gravity |a|\u02dcg (or alternatively, |a\u2212g|<coast_tolerance) at the relevant time step, APA is less than near vertical down (i.e., approaching negative ninety degrees (\u221290\u00b0), meaning vertically downward), and the absolute value of FPA is less than the horizontal flight threshold, then the target is in candidate Astate. This may be represented in logic as statement: (|a|\u02dcg) (APA>near_vertical_down) (|FPA|<horizontal_flight_threshold), the conclusion can be rendered target_is_candidate_apogee_phase for parameters having such values that reach those relevant thresholds.","(g) continue to apply logic check, for determining fall: For example, if the acceleration difference is less than the gravitational threshold such that |a|\u02dcg at the relevant time step, APA is less than near vertical down, and FPA is less than the horizontal flight threshold, then the target is in candidate Dphase. This can be represented as: (|a|\u02dcg) (APA>near_vertical_down) (FRA<horizontal_flight_threshold), the conclusion can be rendered target_is_candidate_descent_phase for parameters having such values that reach those relevant thresholds. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that altitude does not constitute a distinguishing characteristic for any of these phase identifications in logic checks (e), (f) and (g).","This logic represents an expansion over that reported in application Ser. No. 12\/930,168, in which a determination can be made that the bogey represents a ballistic missile for the following conditions (at the relevant time step): FPA significantly exceeds zero, APA approaches negative ninety degrees (\u221290\u00b0, meaning vertically downward), and altitude corresponds to being above regular commercial airliner traffic. For purposes of this disclosure, a determination can be made that the bogey represents a ballistic missile for the following three concurrent conditions: FPA significantly exceeds flying_up_angle, APA is less than near_vertical_down, and altitude is above regular commercial traffic.","This logic can be distinguished from application Ser. No. 12\/930,168 in which logic indicators identify the ballistic flight phase as A(to distinguish from non-ballistic targets, such as aircraft), whereas the instant application distinguishes additional ballistic flight phases as B, Aand D. To summarize application Ser. No. 12\/930,168: a determination can be made that the bogey represents a ballistic missile for the following conditions: FPA significantly exceeds zero, APA approaches negative ninety degrees (\u221290\u00b0, meaning vertically downward), and altitude corresponds to being above regular commercial airliner traffic. Thus, for the prior described condition IF (FPA>flying_up_angle) AND (APA<near_vertical_down) AND (alt>normal_commercial_traffic_altitude), THEN the conclusion can be rendered target_is_candidate_ballistic_missile for parameters having such values that reach that relevant threshold. By comparison, the instant disclosure provides further phase distinctions.","For example as an illustration for the Bphase, for an acceleration a that exceeds a boost_acceleration_threshold, an Acceleration Path Angle APA that exceeds a threshold acceleration_up_angle, and a Flight Path Angle FPA that exceeds a threshold flying_up_angle, then the target is classified as being in a candidate_boost_phase of a ballistic missile. For acceleration difference |a\u2212g| being less than 1 g_threshold, and APA being less than near_vertical_down, then the target can be described as one of two possible states: Aor Dphases. For the first possibility, when the absolute value of FPA is less than the horizontal_flight_threshold, then the target is at candidate_apogee state. Otherwise, when the FPA is less than negative value of the horizontal_flight_threshold, then the candidate is at candidate_descent state.","During the Bphase, acceleration points up, close to the direction of the velocity, which may be approaching vertical_up. During the Bphase an engine provides acceleration force for the object (e.g., a missile). During Bphase, the net acceleration is the acceleration provided by the rocket motor, minus the acceleration provided by gravity. As understood by artisans of ordinary skill, gravitational acceleration is represented by a vector that, to a reasonable degree of accuracy, points to the center of earth's mass. The Aphase begins after the Bphase and continues up to the Astate as the missile's inertia continues following motor burnout.","During the Aphase, the acceleration points down (because the motor provides no further thrust for acceleration, such that gravity becomes the dominant force affecting the target's motion), while the velocity gradually changes from upward (or upward angularly) to horizontal. At A(or the highest point in the trajectory in the gravitational field), acceleration points down, while velocity is predominately horizontal. During the Dphase, both acceleration and velocity point down, with velocity changing from horizontal to potentially near vertical down. In , the direction of acceleration is indicated with arrows on the line labeled \u201cA\u201d, whereas the direction of the velocity is indicated with arrows on the line labeled \u201cV\u201d as shown.","For normal constant velocity aircraft trajectories the apparent acceleration will be zero. More generally, the accelerations observed for aircraft will in general be significantly less than the accelerations observed for ballistic missiles, and the trajectories of the two types of objects will also be significantly different. These considerations allow development of simple processes to distinguish between the various phases of ballistic trajectories and non-ballistic type trajectories.","The process for calculating the velocity and acceleration directions can be described starting with an observed (or calculated) velocity data stream. The computations are performed in a general purpose programmable computer having instructions recorded on a machine-readable medium. The system includes an observation apparatus, such as an optical observation system, an infrared observation system, a radar based observation system and the like, which can monitor and observe the trajectory of an object as a function of increments of time t. Information that can be observed includes position as a function of time, and velocity as a function of time.","These values are then evaluated to determine which phase of ballistic flight is represented by the velocity data stream. In some embodiments, the input velocity stream is represented in the coordinate system horizontal to the earth's surface at the target's position. Generally, an observed target's velocity components should be transformed from the observed position and velocity coordinates to the target's coordinate system using supplementary formulae described in U.S. Ser. No. 12\/930,168. Once in the target's coordinate system, both the Flight Path Angle (FPA) and the Acceleration Path Angle (APA) formulae may be applied to the transformed velocity coordinates.","Various exemplary embodiments provide systems and methods that distinguish between various phases of ballistic trajectories on the basis of intermittent observation of an object as it executes a trajectory in a gravitational field, such as that of earth. The systems and methods operate to distinguish the various phases of ballistic tracks on the basis of a sequence of system reports of a target's velocity. The velocity can be used to compute acceleration according to the relation:\n\n()=()\u00b7\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nwhere v(t) represents velocity, a(t) represents acceleration and t represents time. As used herein, the symbol g represents an acceleration due to gravity, such as the acceleration due to earth's mass at sea level.\n","An exemplary comparison can be described for explanatory purposes. The examples include a bottle rocket and a balsa-wood toy airplane. The high-performance bottle rocket produces thrust against the force of gravity, causing the rocket to move upwards. During this Bphase , both gravity and thrust forces affect the rocket's motion. After exhaustion of its propellant at cutoff , the rocket continues upward until the gravity overcomes its inertia so as to reduce vertical ascent speed. This is labeled as the BAphase , during which gravity gradually overcomes the upward velocity until the rocket reaches its maximum height on an inverted parabolic trajectory. Upon the rocket reaching its peak at apogee , it begins to descend in the mode labeled as BD.","As a simplified numerical example, a massless bottle rocket exerting thrust to accelerate at 20 m\/s(meters-per-second-squared), with an acceleration angle of 75\u00b0 from horizontal, and subject to 9.8 m\/sgravity, achieves a velocity vector (x, y, z) of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"46.6"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"85.7"}}]}},"mo":"\u2003"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"51.8"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"95.2"}}]}},"mo":"\u2003"}}},"br":{},"smallcaps":"OOST"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"5.2"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}}]}},{"mo":["\u2003",","]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220","230","240","200"]},"For example, the rocket's Bmode  has initially zero velocity vectors, whereas these vectors are non-zero for end-of-boost , A and D. Thus, the rocket's FPA shifts from positive to slight negative after A, and its APA shifts from positive to negative vertical after cutoff . In addition, the airplane  exhibits constant velocity and no change in altitude, so that the airplane's FPA remains zero and its APA is indefinite.","The exemplary discriminator has the advantage of being applicable on the basis of a target velocity data stream. Additional target position data and knowledge of earth radius may be incorporated to support conversion of observed target data to local target coordinate system.","Conventional interpretation assumes that acceleration components derive from measured velocity values. However, these have large noise characteristics, and calculations based on observer based information have low reliability. Additionally, concern over ballistic threats has only recent origins as compared to airplanes, such as bomber aircraft, with design choices possibly influenced by computational capabilities of prior generation computers (comparatively slow), leading to reluctance to perform calculations that may have questionable reliability.","Results of investigation in support of exemplary embodiments indicate that despite high noise characteristics for acceleration quantities, the angle computed from these can be suitable to support categorization for ballistic type motion (even when noisy), resulting in the technique presented herein.","Conventional system results indicate less than 15% of a specific set of targets can be correctly categorized as ballistic. Based on desktop analysis using the same data stream applied to the exemplary algorithm, various exemplary embodiments improve this performance to over 90% being correctly categorized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","305","310","320","330","305","330","330"],"sub":["e","T"]},"Based on the earth's spheroidal surface , coordinates can be translated for the observer's position  to a remote horizontal  and a remote vertical . The elevation distance of the target's position  from the surface  can be expressed as altitude vector  from the surface . The remote vertical vector  is approximately collinear to the remote vertical , passing between the earth's center and the target position , and offset from the displacement vector Rby the transition angle \u03b1.","From the observer's position , the local horizontal  and the local vertical  coordinates can translate to the remote horizontal  and the remote vertical  coordinates. Gravitational acceleration operates perpendicular to the surface  and thus along the local and remote verticals  and . The target's position  can be described relative to the observer's position as a distance vector {right arrow over (r)} as a horizon distance vector {right arrow over (r)}as line  and a distance {right arrow over (r)}above local horizontal as line .","Formulae can be sought for the velocity angle \u03b1of velocity vector {right arrow over (v)} with respect to the remote horizontal  to the spheroid surface  at the target position . Components of the velocity can be solved for the target horizontal coordinate system (THCS), labeled as Remote Horizontal. The following parameters can be defined:","{right arrow over (r)} position vector coordinates of a target position , e.g., in local frame coordinates.","{right arrow over (v)} velocity vector coordinates of the target position , e.g., in local frame coordinates.","alt altitude  above reference spheroid surface  at the target position .","The position vector {right arrow over (r)} is provided in local frame coordinates: horizontal  and vertical  as (rrr), in which superscript T denotes matrix transpose. Altitude  is provided at target position . Expectant angle between the local horizontal  and the target remote horizontal  is given by eqn. (8) as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["R","e"]},"mo":"+","mi":"z"},{"msub":{"mi":["R","e"]},"mo":"+","mi":"alt"}]}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["T ","e "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","405","305","300","410","420","430","330","300","440","430","405","440","380","300","450","430"],"sub":["H ","x ","y","H"]},"A first local transition unit vector \u00ea, as line , aligns along the {right arrow over (r)}position vector , associated with a second local transition unit \u00eavector, as line , orthogonal to the first within the plane of the x and y axes , . The unit vectors \u00eaand \u00eadefine the horizontal portion of an intermediate coordinate system . The first unit vector \u00eaas  lies collinear to the position vector {right arrow over (r)}as  from the observer position  to the target position . The transition vector \u00ea, as line , is perpendicular to \u00ea, as line , but also lies within the original local horizontal plane.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","340","460","340"],"sub":["1L","3L ","2L "]},"A remote system  includes a horizontal transition unit vector \u00eaalso tangent along the surface , and a vertical transition unit vector \u00eaparallel to earth radius Ras line . A local target velocity vector {right arrow over (v)}as line  represents a velocity whose components are known within the local coordinate system, but whose components have not yet been determined within the remote coordinate system.","The intermediate coordinate system  transforms the local coordinate system  to the (non-standard) remote coordinate system . Construction of the intermediate coordinate system  provides for the \u00eaaxis to run from the origin of the local coordinate system  in the direction of the target position , while both unit vectors \u00eaand \u00earemain in the original local horizontal plane. The remote coordinate system  represents a subsequent portion of the transformation involving transformation using the transition angle \u03b1, described subsequently.","Generally, obtaining the flight path angle \u03b8 with respect to horizontal plane involves determining the components of the velocity vector {right arrow over (v)} in the plane of the local horizontal , then performing the calculation of eqn. (9):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b8","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"H"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"}}]}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}}},"where |{right arrow over (v)}| and |{right arrow over (v)}| represent respective absolute magnitudes of the velocity and vertical velocity component. The flight path angle \u03b8 corresponds to the vector velocity angle \u03b1.","This calculation can be used in either local frame coordinates  or remote frame coordinates , with the former employed in this example. These can be transformed to the remote frame coordinates  (through the intermediate coordinate system ). New coordinates can be developed by defining an intermediate set of coordinates  that are aligned with the radial vector between the two coordinate systems (in this case target position vector {right arrow over (r)}), and apply the transformation from local to target frame using the transition angle \u03b1. The process for accomplishing this is described below.","First, the local intermediate frame coordinate axes \u00ea(where subscript i represents the three orthogonal coordinates 1, 2, 3) can be developed from the position vector coordinates for all three directions, given by eqn. (10):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["r","x"]},{"mi":["r","h"]}]}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["r","y"]},{"mi":["r","h"]}]}},{"mn":"0"}]}}},"mi":"T"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["r","y"]},{"mi":["r","h"]}]}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["r","x"]},{"mi":["r","h"]}]}},{"mn":"0"}]}}}},"mi":"T"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}}},"mi":"T"}}],"mo":[",",",",","]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["h","x","y"],"sup":["2","2"]},"This defines a local intermediate coordinate system  whose coordinates are represented in the local frame coordinate system . In this system, the unit vector \u00ealies in the horizontal plane in the direction of the target. The unit vector \u00ealies along the local tangent plane vertical axis. The unit vector \u00eaalso lies in the horizontal plane and is perpendicular to the other two vectors (\u00eaand \u00ea).","The target velocity vector {right arrow over (v)} can be denoted in the local radial aligned system . The calculation for intermediate velocity vector {right arrow over (v)}is given by eqn. (11):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"I"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"L"}}}}}]}},"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"T "},"The transformation through the transition angle \u03b1occurs along the radial about the unit vector \u00ea. The transformation can be written as eqn (10):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}}]}]}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["480","520","480"],"sub":["1R ","2R ","3R "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}}}]}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","T"]}}}}}]}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"L"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"L"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","mi":"L"}}}]}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"T "},"As an aside, one end of the vector {right arrow over (r)}as line  is coincident with the origin (0, 0, 0) of the local horizontal plane at point . The other end lies at (r, r, 0) in the local horizontal coordinate system . For the remote horizontal coordinate system , the other end of the position vector {right arrow over (r)}lies along the remote vertical axis (direction of \u00ea) that runs in the remote horizontal coordinate system  through either the origin (0, 0, 0) or else the coordinates (0, 0, alt).","From this, the coordinates for the remote radially-aligned target velocity coordinate system  are formed by the calculation in eqn. (14):\n\n=(),\u2003\u2003(14)\n\nwhich may alternatively be written as eqn. (15):\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["v","xT"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["v","yT"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["v","zT"]}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"I"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"I"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","mi":"R"}},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"I"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}]}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["T ","I "]},"Upon establishing the coordinates, the calculation is straightforward. For any coordinate system, obtaining the flight path angle \u03b8 or FPA with respect to the horizontal plane involves determining the components of the velocity vector {right arrow over (v)} in the horizontal plane for that coordinate system, and subsequently performing the calculation by eqn. (16):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b8","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"H"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"}}]}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}}},"The flight path angle \u03b8 sought can be determined by eqn. (17):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b8","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["v","xT"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":["v","yT"],"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["v","xT"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":["v","yT"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":["v","xT"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":["v","zT"],"mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+","+"]}}]}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["zT","zT"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":["600","610","620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A through 7E","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C"],"b":["700","710","715","720","722","724","726","730","732","734","736","738"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 7D","FIG. 7E"],"b":["740","742","744","746","750","755"]},"An exemplary problem can be demonstrated in association with signal-to-noise. For a vector of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"z"}}]}},"mo":"\u2003"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","y"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"]}}}]}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["|{right arrow over (v)}|","\u2220"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2192"}},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"},{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u2220","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"},{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}]}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sup":["2","2","2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["a","x"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"x"}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"20"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["a","y"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"y","mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"y"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"y"}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"21"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["a","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"z","mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"z"}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}]}}},"br":{}},"From Bar-Shalom, the expected value of a function of a random variable may be provided for expected value E of a function g for random variable x may be provided by integration:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"x"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"23"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Both Maxwell-Boltzman and Rayleigh distributions can be assumed to have the same standard deviation. The distribution of a function of two well-known distributions can follow a normal (i.e., Gaussian) distribution and have the same standard deviation. The function g defined is the vector angle calculation defined in eqn. (17).","As an exemplary test, a true transient axial displacement vector {right arrow over (x)}(t) can be generated as a first step:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","x"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"t"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["b","x"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","y"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"t"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["b","y"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","z"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"t"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["b","z"]}}}}]}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As a second step, noise can be added to produce observed values as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["t","k"]}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"w","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["m","x"]},{"mi":["t","k"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","kx"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","msup":{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":["b","x"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["m","y"]},{"mi":["t","k"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","ky"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","msup":{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":["b","y"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["m","z"]},{"mi":["t","k"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","kz"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":",","msup":{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":["b","z"]}}}}]}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"25"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"u","sup":"2"},"As a third step, true angle \u2220({right arrow over (x)}(t)) can be computed for the true displacement as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u2220","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"},{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"26"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As a fourth step, measured angle \u2220({right arrow over (y)}(t)) can be computed with the added noise as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u2220","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mi":"arccos","mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":[{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"u","mn":"2"},{"mi":"v","mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"u","mn":"2"},{"mi":"v","mn":"2"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"27"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As a fifth step, a difference function \u0394(t) can be computed as:\n\n\u0394()=|\u2220(())\u2212\u2220(())|,\u2003\u2003(28)\n\nwith the difference function representing the absolute value of the differences between true angle \u2220({right arrow over (x)}(t)) and noisy measured angle \u2220({right arrow over (y)}(t)).\n","For a numerical example, true vector {right arrow over (x)} values for true displacements (x, y, z) can be (3, 4, 5) in scalar form. These values would yield true angle value of 45\u00b0. For the corresponding measured vector {right arrow over (y)} values to be extremely noisy, this may produce measured displacements (u, v, w)=(5.5, 6.5, 7.5). Under this circumstance, the measured angle would be 41.4\u00b0.","Alternatively, for corresponding measured values being nominally noisy with measured displacements may be (u, v, w)=(3.25, 4.25, 5.25), the measured angle would be 44.5\u00b0. For corresponding measured values being only slightly noisy, measured displacements correspond to (u, v, w)=(3.025, 4.025, 5.025). For that example, the measured angle would be 44.9\u00b0. Consequently, the difference function \u0394(t) can be plotted in a histogram.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","810","815","820","825","830","835","840","845","850","855"],"sub":["out","in","in"]},"Plots  and  demonstrate the difference in response to increasing the original magnitude of the input quantities. At all the left-side plots, their respective fixed points (x, y, z) are set to zero. This is followed by performing the angle calculation with noisy values, resulting in an arbitrary angle calculated from noisy zeroes. On the right-side, the point values (x, y, z) have been increased while maintaining a fixed measurement noise.","This causes (somewhat unintentionally) the original magnitude of the vector (x, y, z) to increase with respect to the noise. This was realized to be similar to a signal-to-noise type problem. Typically, the greater the vector length, the less likely that its direction is be affected by comparatively small noise. The high speed of missiles constitutes a benefit to this aspect of the problem.","For the graphical views , the left-side histogram plots , , ,  and  have steady-state conditions as x(t)=y(t)=z(t)=0. The right-side histogram plots , , ,  and  are transient, with x(t)=y(t)=25.0\u00d7t and z(t)=0.1\u00d7t. For both sides, true x, y and z values can be computed to calculate true angle. Also, noisy x, y and z as u, v and w values can be computed for a noisy angle \u2220({right arrow over (y)}(t)). The difference \u0394(t) can be calculated between true and noisy angles, and can be plotted as histograms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["900","910"]},"For plot  in , the expected value integral provides the analytical predicted maximum  based on an integral restriction:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2220","mn":"2"}}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msup":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"cos","mn":"2"},"mi":"\u03d5"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mi":"\u03d5","mn":"2"}},{"mi":"\u03d5","mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03d5"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"cos","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2264"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"29"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"z ","b":["930","940"]},"The first expected plot  features results from a fixed length z against a variable input noise, calculating output statistics of the distance function in a simulation curve . The second expected plot  includes a legend  identifying an analytical predicted curve  of eqn. (29) and a simulated actual curve , which corresponds to the same curve  of plot .","The deviation angle \u03c6 in eqn. (29) represents a variable of integration developed based on transformation from Cartesian coordinates to spherical coordinates when attempting to evaluate the three-dimensional version of eqn. (21), which is not readily amenable to closed-form solutions. Thus, the solutions presented employ a Monte Carlo type approach for generating an expectation plot  in , and providing an adequate approximation plot  in .","The approach described herein has resulted from an investigation into resolving considerations for operating an existing conventional system. The conventional system included ability to indicate circumstances in which an observed track exhibits ballistic behavior. Many analytical paths have been investigated to distinguish ballistic and flight trajectories. The difference method provides the most preferred results, and from approximating the Expectation integral of eqn. (21) due to difficulty in developing closed solutions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1005","1010","1005","1010","1020"]},"A coordinate query  can be performed on the resulting estimated state as to whether that state is provided in the target horizontal coordinate system (THCS). If FALSE (as generally expected), the process diverts to a conversion operation  using the coordinate transformations described above. Then, or otherwise if the query is TRUE, the process proceeds to a signal quality query  as to whether the filtered and transformed state has an adequate signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio. If not, the process determines at operation  that the bogey's state is indeterminate, and that further information may be required. Noisy signals compromise the ability to determine acceleration, unless change in velocity exceeds some SNR threshold, such as for a ballistic missile.","If SNR is adequate, the process diverts to a calculation operation  to determine flight path and acceleration path angles (FPA and APA) respectively from eqns. (1) and (5). A set of trajectory decision queries  uses the calculated path angles to categorize phase states  based on the signal . In particular, the first query inquires whether absolute acceleration exceeds twice gravity (|a|>2 g), and both acceleration path and flight path angles greatly exceed zero (APA>>0\u00b0, FPA>>0\u00b0), which if all satisfied determine that the bogie can be identified as a ballistic missile with the Bphase identifier . Otherwise, the second query inquires whether acceleration path angle points vertically downward (APA\u02dc\u221290\u00b0), flight path angle is significantly greater than zero (FPA>>0\u00b0), and altitude is above commercial flights, which if all satisfied determine that the bogie can be identified as a missile with the Aphase identifier ","Otherwise, the third query inquires whether absolute acceleration approximates gravity (|a|\u02dcg), acceleration path angle points vertically downward (APA\u02dc\u221290\u00b0, and absolute flight path angle approximates zero (|FPA|\u02dc0\u00b0), which if all satisfied determine that the bogie can be identified as a missile with the Astate identifier . Otherwise, the fourth query inquires whether absolute acceleration approximates gravity (|a|\u02dcg), acceleration path angle points vertically downward (APA\u02dc\u221290\u00b0), and flight path angle is approximately down (FPA\u02dc<0\u00b0), which if all satisfied determine that the bogie can be identified as a missile with the Didentifier . For conditions in which none of these criteria are satisfied, the process concludes at determination , such that the bogey constitutes a possible aircraft or other aerial object, that identification is indeterminate, beyond not being a ballistic missile. One should note that application Ser. No. 12\/930,168 includes the second inquiry and the corresponding Acategorization ","These operations, and portions thereof, can be performed as procedural steps being performable by machine operation\u2014e.g., a programmable code for a general purpose computer, or else an ASIC. The process results in an automated determination, based on noisy input data and optional transformations, with an identity determination that a bogey constitutes a ballistic threat.","The considerations are indicated in letter from Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division to Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense Program Office, reference 9000 Ser W05\/058, \u201cCertification of Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) Aegis Weapon System (AWS) Baseline 3.6.1.1 Computer Programs\u201d, dated Mar. 20, 2009.","In summary, conventional systems rely on information other than velocity and are sensitive either to relative position information or to delays in reporting the alternative information. Testing indicated the referenced system would perform poorly against certain types of targets, which led to an examination of techniques in use by that system, and subsequent development of the exemplary process described above.","While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A through 7E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
