---
title: Method and apparatus for reading a non-volatile memory using a spin torque oscillator
abstract: A method and apparatus for reading electronic memory comprising a current source, a spin transfer oscillator, an external field source, coupled to the current source, for generating an RF signal, the spin torque oscillator positioned proximate a magnetic media comprising a plurality of bit regions of varying magnetic permeability, wherein a frequency of the RF signal varies in response to the permeability of a bit region in the plurality of bit regions being proximate the spin torque oscillator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030780&OS=09030780&RS=09030780
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09030780
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/680,834 filed Aug. 8, 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.","Government Interest\u2014The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.","Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to memory devices and, more specifically to a method and apparatus for reading non-volatile magnetic memory.","Most modern memory is based on the evolution of magnetic recording. One form of magnetic memory is a hard disk wherein magnetic bits of information are stored on a magnetic film medium in very small localized regions. Depending on the magnetization within a region, each region represents either a logic high or logic low value (i.e. a \u201c1\u201d or \u201c0\u201d). The regions are electronically read via moving mechanical read\/write heads. The heads are mounted proximate a spinning disk supporting a magnetic film. A read head operates by sensing changes in the resistance of the sensor in the read head induced by the data bit regions as they pass under the read head. A write head stores data on the disk by utilizing magnetic flux to set the direction and amplitude of the magnetic moment for each bit region passing beneath the write head.","Disk storage has a limited storage lifetime, bit density, and volatility. The magnetic medium used in traditional disk storage degrades within 10 years. The information is stored in small magnetic bit regions through magnetizing each region in a particular direction. Over time, the magnetization of the bit regions is corrupted by external electromagnetic forces, through prolonged exposure to the Earth's magnetic field, or through thermal upsets. Thermal upsets are statistical processes that occur when the magnetization of a bit region is thermally activated to overcome the anisotropy barrier.","Bit density of conventional hard disks is near 200 Gbits\/in; however, bit region size is limited by the superparamagnetic limit. Traditional magnetic recording is approaching the superparamagnetic limit. Thus, further advances in storage density using traditional storage techniques is becoming increasingly difficult.","As electronic recording evolves and more information is digitized, there exists not just a critical necessity for storage volume but also storage permanency. Therefore, a need exists for high density, stable, non-volatile memory with a longer storage lifetime.","A method and apparatus for reading electronic memory comprising a current source, a spin transfer oscillator, coupled to the current source, for generating a radio frequency (RF) signal, a magnetic probe field, a magnetic media comprising bit regions of varying magnetic permeability, the spin torque oscillator positioned proximate the magnetic media, wherein a frequency of the RF signal varies in response to the change of the magnetic probe field and\/or a self field of the spin transfer oscillator caused by the permeability of the bit region proximate the spin torque oscillator are provided herein. Other and further embodiments of the present invention are described below.","To facilitate understanding, identical reference numerals have been used, where possible, to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.","Embodiments of the present invention relate to reading magnetic memory comprising regions of high and low magnetic permeability using a spin torque oscillator (STO). The STO can have various forms that include magnetic tunnel junctions and spin valves. One embodiment, includes a current source driving an STO to produce an RF signal. The STO is positioned proximate a magnetic media and a spectrum analyzer measures a frequency of an RF signal that varies in response to the permeability of bit regions on the magnetic media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","105","110","115","120","105","110","115","115","120"]},"The media  is comprised of individually aligned bit regions  and of material capable of being written and kept in a stable, non-volatile state while still maintaining their magnetic permeability such as Permalloy or Metglas. Metglas for example may be written with a laser such that cooling rates determine whether a bit region has a high permeability (amorphous state) or low permeability (crystalline state). The cooling rate of a laser that gradually turns off is vastly different to a laser that instantly turns off. The cooling rates produce two distinct permeability regions on the Metglas that represent 1's and 0's. The resultant bit data may be permanent so long as the Metglas is not exposed to high heat (i.e. in excess of 500\u00b0 C.). The bit regions  may be radially aligned on a disk or arranged as a grid for accurately locating and reading the individual regions  of the media .","In the embodiment of , the STO  has a magnetic tunnel junction. The STO  (also known as a spin transfer oscillator or spin transfer torque microwave oscillator) is comprised of a top electrode , a magnetic free layer , a non-magnetic layer insulator , a magnetic fixed (i.e. pinned) layer , and a lower electrode . A current is passed from the current source  through the STO electrodes ( and ) such that spin polarized current passes through the insulator . The magnetic moment of the free layer  is parallel to the non-magnetic layer  which in some embodiments may be comprised of an insulating non-magnetic material such as Magnesium Oxide (MgO) or Aluminum Oxide (AlO). The combination of the fixed layer , insulator , and free layer  forms what is known as a magnetic tunnel junction. In the magnetic tunnel junction, the non-magnetic insulating layer  acts as a spacer to magnetically decouple the free layer  and the fixed layer . If the nonmagnetic layer  is instead a conductor, the STO is a spin valve. In either case the free layer  of the STO  can rotate in response to external magnetic fields (discussed further below) and\/or spin polarized currents","In the STO , a spin polarized current driven through the fixed layer  tends to cause the magnetization to align parallel to the magnetization of the fixed layer . This tendency, results from the angular momentum of the electrons in the current giving rise to torque that acts on the magnetization of the free layer. This torque prevents the magnetization of the free layer  from aligning in the direction of the magnetic field. Instead the magnetization of the free layer precesses around the magnetic field and the system emits microwave radiation at the Larmor frequency that is set by the magnetic field strength. If current is driven from the free layer  to the fixed layer , the tunneling electrons align with the free layer  then impact and reflect off the fixed layer . These electrons then interact with the free layer  and tend to align the free layer anti-parallel to the fixed layer . Again, the torque transfer causes microwave oscillation. In either case, the magnetization of the free layer  precesses and the STO radiates microwave energy at a Larmor frequency that is proportional to the vector cross product {right arrow over (M)}\u00d7{right arrow over (H)}where {right arrow over (M)} is the magnetization of the free layer and {right arrow over (H)}is the effective field acting on the magnetization of the free layer.","The current density driving the STO  must be very high (e.g. 10amps\/cm) and be spin polarized. The motion of the free layer  is governed by a modification of Landau-Lifshitze-Gilbert (LLG) equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u03b3"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u00d7"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2192"},"mi":"eff"}},{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u00d7"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]}},{"msub":{"mi":["b","j"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u00d7"],"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":"\u00d7","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]}}}}],"mo":["+","-"]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["eff ","j ","j","e","B","s","B ","e ","s "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["b","=Pj","\/eM"]},"The first term on the right hand side of the equation (1) (i.e. \u2212\u03b3{right arrow over (M)}\u00d7{right arrow over (H)}) gives rise to the precession and the second term",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["i","e"],"mo":[".","."],"mstyle":{"mtext":":"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03b1","x"],"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["i","e"],"mo":[".","."],"mstyle":{"mtext":":"}},{"msub":{"mi":["b","j"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"x","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mover":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2192"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","-"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["eff","eff"],"b":["165","170"]},"The permeability of the media modifies the effective magnetic field {right arrow over (H)}in equation (1) in that it attracts magnetic field lines into the regions of the media with high permeability. In general the media affects both the magnitude and direction of {right arrow over (H)}. Depending on the geometry, i.e., the position of the high permeability regions in the media, the media can either increase or decrease the field at the position of the STO. The change in {right arrow over (H)}depends on the amount of permeability for a specific bit area\/region of a plurality of bit regions  on the media . Because of the first term in Eq. 1, the change in {right arrow over (H)}changes the precession frequency and thus the frequency of the microwave radiation emitted by the STO. Since the STO  has a high quality factor (Q), small changes in the microwave radiation are easily detectable.","The voltage across the STO may be directly measured with the spectrum analyzer  such that the changes in the precession frequency may be directly detected. Otherwise, changes may be indirectly detected through measurement of the amplitude and the shift width of the resonance frequency. Other embodiments may include an antenna to indirectly capture and couple the signal to the spectrum analyzer .","The magnetic permeable media  will modify the RF signal from the STO  in two ways. Firstly, the permeability will modify the magnetic field at the position of the STO  by drawing in magnetic flux. Modifying the field will shift the RF precession frequency. Secondly, the media  will absorb microwave energy because of resistive losses. Since energy is absorbed, this will decrease the amplitude of the oscillation and lower the Q.","As the reader  operates based on the magnetic permeability of the media , the memory is non-volatile as permeability is an intrinsic property. Lifetime integrity is also extended almost indefinitely as the media  no longer needs to hold a minimum energy for maintaining the magnetization direction that determines the bit value of the individual bit regions. Furthermore, since the reader  is not reliant on the magnetization direction of the regions, the media  is not limited by the superparamagnetic limit and may have greater bit volume. Thus in some exemplary embodiments, the reader  may read bits that are 20\u00d720 nm or 400 nm with a bit density of 2\u00d710\/cm. The bit values detected by the spectrum analyzer may then be output to a computer for additional processing of the information.","In the above embodiment, the magnetic field generators ( and ) may be permanent magnets, electromagnets and\/or the like. In some instances, the reader  may use the magnetic field generators ( and ) to generate a probe magnetic field when the STO  does not emit the correct RF frequency. The addition of the magnetic field generators ( and ) allows for improved freedom to tailor the STO  for particular media  by modifying the frequency of the microwave radiation from the STO . Alternatively, one can control the proximate magnetic field generators ( and ) to optimize performance with a given STO. A large frequency shift arising from applying the magnetic field generators ( and ) allows the STO  to operate within a larger frequency band. The frequency modification thus may effectively change the RF frequency of the STO to accommodate for the sensitivity of instruments such as the spectrum analyzer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","205","210","215","220","228","225","230","235","240","202","215","220","228","230","225","202","240","205","210","215","220","220","225","210","228","228","230"]},"The frequency counter  digitizes the resulting IF signal for the threshold comparator . The comparator  applies predetermined known criteria for anticipated frequency shift values for a high or low permeability bit. The results of the high or low bits (i.e. \u201c1\u201d or \u201c0\u201d) are then output for processing by the computer  comprising a processor , memory  that may include support circuits . The processor  in some embodiments may be a microprocessor or microcontroller to execute instructions and store bit values in memory . The memory  includes a signal processing module  for interpreting signals ultimately generated by the STO , and a controller module  to ensure alignment of the STO  and media . Support circuits  may include A\/D converters, D\/A converters, alignment sensors or circuitry of the STO  and media , as well as signal processing for a user interface. Further embodiments may include using the computer  to measure the frequency response for a change in quality factor, gain, or impedance matching.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","240","265","260","300","305","310","315","320","320","325"]},"The criterion includes a threshold for a \u201c1\u201d bit value at step , which if returned true, flags the bit location as a \u201c1\u201d. The method then determines if there are more bits to be read at step , which if true proceeds  back to align the STO with the next bit in the media or else the method ends . However, if at step  it is determined the \u201c1\u201d bit value threshold is not met, the method determines whether the threshold for the bit value is a \u201c0\u201d at step . Should the threshold for bit \u201c0\u201d be met, the bit location is accordingly fagged  as a \u201c0\u201d and the method continues to determine if more bits are to be read at step . However, if step  determines the threshold for the \u201c0\u201d bit value is not met the method ends  as an error or inconclusive reading. In an exemplary embodiment, wherein the frequency response is measured, the measurement of the bandwidth is compared  with predetermined frequency criterion for bit values. As an example, a \u201c1\u201d is where |\u0394f|>|\u0394f\/2| and \u201c0\u201d is |\u0394f|\u22450, where \u0394fis the preset expected value for the high permeability bit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["400","400","405","410","415","420","425","420","415","440","435"]},"Other further embodiments may include rewritable media such as Metglas. Metglas is a material that has a high magnetic permeability of approximately 10,000 N\u00b7Ain the amorphous state and a low permeability of approximately 5-10 N\u00b7Awhen it is crystalline. By controlling the cooling rate from above 500\u00b0 C. after heating, for example through an e-beam or evanescent wave, it is possible to rewrite the media by making the material either crystalline or amorphous. Further embodiments may also include \u201cn\u201d-levels that are signally based on corresponding n-levels of permeability. The multiple levels of permeability may thus also allow for more information to be stored per bit area and\/or greater bit density. A given permeability level may represent a symbol comprising multiple bits. Nevertheless, the reader disclosed above utilizes intrinsic magnetic permeability and thus provides the ability to read magnetic media that is effectively immune from corruption by magnetic fields.","While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention, other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the present invention, briefly summarized above and discussed in greater detail below, can be understood by reference to the illustrative embodiments of the invention depicted in the appended drawings. It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
