---
title: Website with enhanced book memos
abstract: A website is augmented to indicate the presence of saveable enhanced book memos. A user can save an enhanced book memo to their memobook database, then view their saved book memos, either at the website, or using a downloaded program when not at the website. The enhanced book memos can include text and/or multimedia files that are not present on the website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558284&OS=09558284&RS=09558284
owner: HighEnd Pte. Ltd.
number: 09558284
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20121009
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to a method of making information easier to use, and more particularly, is directed to a website that has been augmented with information intended to be saved to a user's file of clippings.","Information users and information providers both want the information users to be able to easily save and recall information published on the Internet. For instance, a user wishing to purchase a high quality item typically browses different websites and may go to a nearby store as part of their purchase process.","The need for improved webpage bookmarks has been recognized.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,899,829, \u201cIntelligent bookmarks and information management system based on same\u201d, shows a method for an individual browsing a website to generate \u201cintelligent bookmarks\u201d that include metadata for various fields, as shown in  (see fields for screenshot, URL, title, keywords, etc.). The reference discloses extracting information and metadata from website to be bookmarked (column 8, line 35-column 9, line 31). The reference further discloses a visual representation of the bookmark (element 44). When the bookmark is first created, the information and metadata is extracted from the website, but was not provided by the website for specific purpose of creating a bookmark. The reference discloses the online sharing of the intelligent bookmarks between a number of users in communication with an intelligent bookmark database (column 11, lines 24-58). The reference discloses publishing the bookmark as part of a blog posting for others to download (column 12, lines 31-30).","U.S. Pat. No. 5,918,237, \u201cMethod and apparatus for improved bookmark and histories entry creation and access\u201d, shows a method for generating multimedia bookmarks in which the there is embedded in an HTML document data that describes the location of multimedia bookmark description (\u201cMBD\u201d) information (column 4, lines 44-55; column 5, lines 48-57). The user can then save the MBD as a multimedia bookmark that appears in the user's bookmark list (column 4, line 56-column 5, line 3; column 5, line 62-column 6, line 37). The reference further shows displaying the MBD bookmarks graphically in a bookmark list (column 7, lines 9-23, FIG. 6).","U.S. Pat. No. 7,167,901, \u201cMethod and apparatus for improved bookmark and histories entry creation and access\u201d, shows a method for generating bookmarks as part of a bookmark list with bookmarks that include metadata for various fields, as shown in FIG. 3 (see fields for Name, URL, description, and keywords). The reference discloses populating the description and keywords fields of the bookmarks from the metadata of the websites being bookmarked (column 4, lines 6-49). However, this metadata was not provided by the website for specific purpose of creating a bookmark. The representation of FIG. 3 is used only to manually edit the fields of the bookmark by the user.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,486,891, \u201cAutomated bookmarking of online advertisements\u201d, discloses a method of generating bookmarks associated with an online advertisement that has been placed within a webpage. The reference discloses causing a traditional click through advertisement to be displayed within a webpage (FIG. 5), and allowing the user to bookmark the website associated with the advertisement (column 6, lines 11-19) by causing the website to transmit to the client an applet that automatically bookmarks the associated website (column 6, lines 39-60). The reference is limited to standard browser bookmarks.","U.S. Pat. No. 8,041,701, \u201cEnhanced graphical interfaces for displaying visual data\u201d, generally discloses enhanced graphical interfaces for various uses of web browsers. Specifically, the reference shows a graphical bookmark manager with a horizontal bookmark toolbar, multiple bookmark lists, and thumbnails (column 11, lines 7-53, FIG. 13).","There is still room to improve a user's ability to collect information while browsing web pages.","In accordance with an aspect of this invention, there are provided a website augmented with information that can be saved to a database associated with a user. The website has a web page for display by a browser program executing on a user device. The website also has at least one actuatable indication of a saveable file, the actuatable indication being displayed on the web page, the saveable file including at least a title, a thumbnail image and one text field. When a user actuates the actuatable indication, the saveable file is stored in the database associated with the user.","It is not intended that the invention be summarized here in its entirety. Rather, further features, aspects and advantages of the invention are set forth in or are apparent from the following description and drawings.","In a set-up phase of a website, a human editor creates enhanced book memos (see  step ), and associates the enhanced book memos with text or objects (such as photos or graphics or video) on a website (see  step ). An enhanced book memo comprises structured data and optional data, as discussed below. A book memo differs from a bookmark: (i) the same book memo may be available at multiple web sites, whereas a bookmark is unique to a website, and (ii) the book memo does not necessarily indicate the web site at which it was found, whereas a bookmark indicates the web site at which it was found. A book memo is similar to a bookmark in that both relate to webpages, and both are saved to special data stores associated with a user.","In a set-up of a user account registered at the website, a user may optionally configure their \u201cmemobook\u201d (see  step ), that is, their book of book memos, with one or more lists.","In operation, a website displays text or objects associated with enhanced book memos in a specific manner, such as a different color or background or frame, or with a special icon superimposed thereon. A user hovers his or her cursor over an enhanced book memo to cause a window to pop-up, enabling saving of the enhanced book memo to the user's \u201cmemobook\u201d possibly with annotations by the user.","During operation, a user can view their memobook, showing the contents of each enhanced book memo as created by the editor.","Accordingly, a user can quickly save meaningful information for things found on the Internet. The providers of information have the opportunity to give descriptive and operational information to users beyond the information presented on a web page. The enhanced book memos can be shared from one user to another in various ways. Enhanced book memos improve the ease of saving information, the ease of acting on information and the ease of purchasing products.","An embodiment of the present invention will now be discussed. The user's file or \u201cbook\u201d of enhanced book memos is referred to as a \u201cmemobook\u201d. An enhanced book memo is also referred to as an \u201centry\u201d or \u201cclipping\u201d in the memobook.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Communication network  is a group of computer processors and communications facilities configured to transmit information among parties connected thereto, generally in a store-and-forward manner, but also capable of operating to \u201cstream\u201d data. Communication network  may be the Internet.","Small user device  is a handheld device having a processor, data storage, display, data entry means, wireless communication capability and browser software for displaying webpage information. An instance of small user device  is an iPhone, made by Apple Computer.","Mobile switching center (MSC)  is a facility of a wireless communication carrier having one or more computing facilities coupled via communication lines to broadcast towers arranged in a cellular pattern that provide two-way wireless communication with user devices having wireless cellular communication capability, such as small user device .","Medium user device  is a portable device having a processor, data storage, display, data entry means, wireless communication capability and browser software for displaying webpage information. An instance of medium user device  is an iPad, made by Apple Computer.","Wireless network access point  is a facility enabling an electronic device such as medium user device , to wirelessly exchange data over communication network . Wireless network access point  has one or more computing facilities coupled via communication lines to an antenna having a range of about 20 meters (65 feet) indoors, and a somewhat larger range outdoors. Wireless network access point  may be a wi-fi hotspot operating according to the IEEE 802.11 protocol.","Large user device  is a general purpose computer, such as a desktop computer, notebook computer or laptop computer having a processor, data storage, display, data entry means, communication capability including wireline and\/or wireless, and browser software for displaying webpage information.","It will be understood that in some cases, small user device  and\/or large user device  is operable using wireless network access point ; and in other cases, medium user device  and\/or large user device  is operable using MSC . It will also be understood that other communication configurations are suitable, such as medium user device  communicating with large user device  via bluetooth protocol, which in turn couples to communication network .","Nonpartysite , mainsite  and partnersite  are each implemented using one or more general purpose computers with suitable storage and communication capability to function as web servers, including appropriate server software. Generally, nonpartysite , mainsite  and partnersite  operate according to hypertext transfer protocol, in which the server receives a request for a webpage from a user device via network , and responds by providing the requested webpage to the user device via network .","Nonpartysite  is a conventional website that does not include any features of the present invention.","Mainsite  is a website according to the present invention, including data storage  for user data including the user's memobook, data storage  for webpage data and enhanced book memos associated with the webpages, and data storage  for usage data. Although data storages ,  and  are shown as physically separate in , in practice, they may operate on shared equipment configured with one or more physical storage units operative to store and retrieve data using suitable electromechanical, magnetic and\/or optical technologies. Users register at mainsite  to become registered users.","Each registered user has a respective memobook stored as part of their user data in data storage , that is initially populated with one entry. In some embodiments, a user may download all or part of their memobook to their local computer for local viewing and editing. This is helpful when, e.g., a user expects to be on an airplane and unable to communicate with mainsite .","During creation of webpages for mainsite , using editing software (not shown) an editor and\/or developer adds special icons or signifiers for enhanced book memos to the webpages stored in data storage  (see  step ). In one embodiment, the editing software is based on PyroCMS, an open source content management system, available at www.pyrocms.com, customized to (i) enable creation of enhanced book memos via a new content type (the new content type is an enhanced book memo), (ii) enable association of an enhanced book memo with an item of content on a web page, the item being one or more words, or a media object, and (iii) enable association of an enhanced book memo with an event in a calendar page of an existing calendar program.","A user adds an entry, also referred to as an enhanced book memo or clipping, to his or her memobook by clicking on one of the special icons or signifiers on a webpage provided by mainsite  (see  step ).","Mainsite  enables a user to view (see  step ) and edit his or her memobook, as discussed below.","Mainsite  detects the display size of a user device, and serves webpages to the user device optimized for the device's display size. For instance, for a small display size, a webpage is configured in a one-column format, whereas for a large display size, a webpage may be configured in a four-column format.","Partnersite  is a website that is operated by a third party. During creation of webpages for partnersite , an editor and\/or developer adds special icons or signifiers for enhanced book memos to the webpages stored in data storage  (see  step ). In this embodiment, the enhanced book memos for partnersite  are stored in data storage . When a user registered at mainsite  receives a webpage from partnersite , the user can add an enhanced book memo from partnersite  to his or her memobook maintained at mainsite .","Generally, mainsite  provides an application programming interface (API) for use by a developer at partnersite , explaining how to create an enhanced book memo and embed it on the web site of partnersite . In some cases, the user must go to mainsite  to access their memobook. In other cases, the developer at partnersite  uses the API to make the user's memobook accessible to the user at the web site of partnersite .","In other embodiments, discussed below, the enhanced book memos are maintained at mainsite  (see  step ), and can be updated by the creator\/owner of the enhanced book memo (see  step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"The third row is provided by a webpage from mainsite , and includes a horizontal navigation bar with links to \u201cMyAccount\u201d, \u201cMemobook\u201d and \u201cHelp\u201d. Clicking on (or otherwise suitably indicating) the Memobook link enables the user to view their memobook, as discussed below. The Memobook link is an actuatable indication of a database program.","The user's browser software enables scrolling of the webpage in the viewable area of the browser.","The body of the webpage has four multi-media areas Picture, Picture, Picture and Picture, which represent multi-media files such as a graphic image, photograph, audio\/video file or audio file. Proximate to each of the multi-media areas is a logically associated text area, Text, Text, Text and Text.","The webpage in  has five indicators for enhanced book memos. An icon, shown as \u201cMB\u201d in a multi-pointed oval, appears as an overlay on each of Picture, Picture and Picture. Specially highlighted text in each of Text and Text indicates that the text is associated with an enhanced book memo. The highlighting may include one or more of a different color than the main text, a different font type or font size or font emphasis (bold, underline, italic), a different background color, or a special effect such as blinking text. Each icon and specially highlighted text is an actuatable indication of a saveable file, the enhanced book memo.","The enhanced book memo indicated by the icon overlaid on Picture is the same as the enhanced book memo indicated by the specially highlighted text in Text . That is, there can be multiple ways to indicate the same enhanced book memo.","At the bottom of the webpage shown in , there is provided an area labelled \u201cFOR YOUR MEMOBOOK\u201d that indicates the four enhanced book memos on the webpage. Each of the enhanced book memos is represented as its thumbnail image. If the user has not saved the enhanced book memo to their memobook, there is a save button, labelled as \u201c+MB\u201d in , next to the thumbnail for the enhanced book memo. If the user has saved the enhanced book memo to their memobook, there is a \u201cSaved\u201d button next to the thumbnail for the enhanced book memo.","Clicking on the save button causes the enhanced book memo to be saved to the user's memobook, and the save button is toggled to a saved button. In this embodiment, a user must go into their memobook to delete an enhanced book memo.","In other embodiments, clicking on the saved button causes the enhanced book memo to be deleted from the user's memobook, and the saved button is toggled to a save button.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 3D","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["845","860"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3B"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["\u201cSave event to calendar\u201d\u2014this assumes that the enhanced book memo is of the \u201cevent\u201d type (discussed below), and generates a standard calendar event file, such as an .ics file, and downloads the file to the user's device, that is, to device ,  or . Generally, the operating system for device  requires the user to double click on the event file to add it to the user's calendar program (such as Microsoft Outlook), while the operating system for devices ,  automatically adds a received calendar file to the user's calendar program;","\u201cSave to My Memobook\u201d\u2014causes the enhanced book memo to be added to the general portion of the user's memobook;","\u201cSave to MyList\u201d\u2014if the user has defined any lists in his or her memobook, then this choice is on the menu. Selecting this choice leads to a drop-down window that is scrollable, with a box next to the name of each list that the user has defined. The user checks one or more lists to which the enhanced book memo should be addedenhanced book memo;","\u201cAdd topic to preferences\u201d\u2014adds the topics associated with the enhanced book memo to the user's preferred topics."]}},"In other cases, other functionality is provided in the complex pop-up associated with an enhanced book memo."]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4D","FIGS. 4A-4D","FIGS. 3A-3D","FIGS. 4A-4D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2","FIG. 5"],"b":"300"},"Top row  of the memobook has a label \u201cAccountName\u201d, and drop-down menus, indicated by inverted triangles, labelled \u201cLocation\u201d, \u201cPreference\u201d and \u201cUserInfo\u201d.","\u201cAccountName\u201d indicates the registered account name of the user.","\u201cLocation\u201d is a menu of the locations selected by the user in \u201cUser Info\u201d, and represents the user's current location, along with a \u201cwhere I am now\u201d option. When information in an enhanced book memo is location dependent, the place in this \u201cLocation\u201d field is used for the enhanced book memo contents. For instance, the enhanced book memo may be configured to show the nearest location of a merchant to the user. For the \u201cwhere I am now\u201d option, mainsite  determines the user's current location based on information provided by the user's device.","\u201cPreference\u201d enables the user to adjust features of the memobook. Each row of the Preference menu indicates a feature, followed by the selections for the row. The default selection is the first in each row, but the user may click on a different selection to select it. The operative selection is highlighted such as by boldface text. Table 1 provides the features, selections and a brief description.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0072"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Feature","Selections","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Content","Original | Catalog","Content Display controls how the enhanced book memos"]},{"entry":["display",{},"are displayed. Original corresponds to how the editor"]},{"entry":[{},{},"laid out the enhanced book memo (see FIG. 5 for screen"]},{"entry":[{},{},"format, FIGS. 7A and 7B for instances of enhanced book"]},{"entry":[{},{},"memos); Catalog provides a matrix of thumbnail images"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(see FIG. 6)"]},{"entry":["Content","Current | Redlined","If an editor makes changes to an enhanced book memo,"]},{"entry":["history",{},"the user must set Content History to \u201cRedlined\u201d to see"]},{"entry":[{},{},"prior versions of the content. The setting of \u201cCurrent\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"shows only the most recent version of the content."]},{"entry":["Gender","Male | Female | Both","If the content of an enhanced book memo depends on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"gender of a user, the gender is obtained from this feature."]},{"entry":[{},{},"This is particularly helpful when shopping for gifts."]},{"entry":["Icon","Simple | Complex","Icon display controls whether the pop-up for an enhanced"]},{"entry":["display",{},"book memo identifier on a webpage is simple (see FIGS."]},{"entry":[{},{},"3B, 4B) or complex (see FIGS. 3C, 4C)."]},{"entry":["Language","English | Mandarin","Language controls the language in which the content of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the enhanced book memo is displayed."]},{"entry":["Popular","Views | Clicks | Shares","Popular Now controls how popularity is determined for"]},{"entry":["Now",{},"usermade enhanced book memos: by the number of times"]},{"entry":[{},{},"they are viewed, the number of times someone clicks on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"some part of their content, or the number of times that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"enhanced book memo is shared to someone else."]},{"entry":["Update","Off | Email | Text","Update controls whether the user gets active explicit"]},{"entry":["notices",{},"notification each time the contents of an enhanced book"]},{"entry":[{},{},"memo are changed, and if so, how (as an email or a text"]},{"entry":[{},{},"message)."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cUser Info\u201d is a menu of user-related descriptive information, discussed in Table 2.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0074"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Item","Sample","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["AccountName","JBL1965","The unique account name for a registered user."]},{"entry":["Password","******","The password chosen by the user."]},{"entry":["Email address","jbl1965@yahoo.com","The email address of the registered user."]},{"entry":["Text message address","212 234-5678","A phone number or email address at which the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"user can receive text messages."]},{"entry":["Primary location","Singapore","The default location of the user."]},{"entry":["Other locations","Brussels","Other locations that the user has selected as"]},{"entry":[{},"London","being of interest. Generally, the selection is"]},{"entry":[{},"New York","from a list of locations provided by mainsite"]},{"entry":[{},"Palo Alto","100 during registration, and updatable from the"]},{"entry":[{},"Jerusalem","webpage shown in FIG. 2."]},{"entry":["Topic Alerts","parties","Topics that the user has indicated as being of"]},{"entry":[{},"sculpture","interest, either explicitly when registering or"]},{"entry":[{},"cars","while saving an enhanced book memo (see"]},{"entry":[{},{},"complex pop-up FIGS. 3C, 4C)."]},{"entry":["Access Control","drew747","User names of other registered members of"]},{"entry":["WhiteList","gaga1010","mainsite 100 that are allowed to view lists of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"enhanced book memos created by this user,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and from whom this user will accept lists."]},{"entry":["Access Control","bobo292","User names of other registered members of"]},{"entry":["Blacklist",{},"mainsite 100 that this user will not accept lists"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"At the rightmost side of the top row of the memobook is a label \u201cCLOSE\u201d. The user clicks this to close the memobook and return to the webpage shown in .","Second row  of the memobook has drop-down menus, indicated by inverted triangles, labelled \u201cLocation\u201d, \u201cFilter By\u201d, \u201cMy Lists\u201d, \u201cType\u201d and a link labelled \u201cHelp\u201d. This row is used to select which of the enhanced book memos are currently displayed, and their order of display.","\u201cLocation\u201d has choices of All, the user's Primary location and each of the user's other locations.","\u201cFilter By\u201d has choices of Recent, All, Most Popular and Archived. \u201cRecent\u201d provides a predetermined number of recent enhanced book memos, such as ten. \u201cAll\u201d provides all of the enhanced book memos in the user's memobook. \u201cMost Popular\u201d provides the enhanced book memos in the user's memobook that have been viewed by the most number of other users during the most recent predetermined time period, such as the most recent 24 hours. If an enhanced book memo has not been viewed by a user for a predetermined duration, such as 30 days, mainsite  automatically places the enhanced book memo into the archive section of the user's memobook.","\u201cMy Lists\u201d enables the user to view all of the lists viewable from their memobook, and to create and delete lists. Initially, there are no lists. Lists arise from creation by this user, or from sharing by another user.","To create a list, the user selects \u201cCreate\u201d from the \u201cMyLists\u201d menu, provides a list name and indicates whether it is public or shared; sharing occurs with the users on this user's access control whitelist. The user associates enhanced book memos with this list either from the complex pop-up (see ) or by moving from another part of their memobook (see \u201cMove\u201d menu underneath each enhanced book memo in ).","To receive a shared list from someone else, this user must have the other user in this user's access control whitelist. Except for adding notes to a shared enhanced book memo, the sharee user has read-only access to the enhanced book memo.","\u201cType\u201d has choices of \u201cProduct\u201d, \u201cEvent\u201d, \u201cPlace\u201d or \u201cPerson\u201d. Mainsite  may add additional types. \u201cProduct\u201d indicates a purchaseable item. \u201cEvent\u201d indicates something that occurs either once or periodically, such as a party, arts performance or a weekly happy hour. \u201cPlace\u201d indicates a destination, such as a museum, restaurant, hotel or theater. \u201cPerson\u201d indicates a service provider such as a doctor, lawyer, accountant, consultant, nanny, coach and so on.","The remainder of the memobook display comprises left pane  and main area .","Left pane  of memobook  has five rows. The first row is labeled \u201cUSER'S MEMOBOOK\u201d. The other rows each alter what is in the main area, indicated by right-pointing triangles, are are respectively labelled \u201cSuggestions from Editor\u201d, \u201cSuggestions from Usage\u201d, \u201cSuggestions from Friends\u201d and \u201cPopular Now\u201d.","When the \u201cUSER'S MEMOBOOK\u201d is selected, only enhanced book memos that the user has explicitly added to his or her memobook are displayed in the main area, along with enhanced book memos, if any, from lists shared by other users on this user's access control whitelist.","\u201cSuggestions from Editor\u201d changes the display to a predetermined number of enhanced book memos selected by the editor of mainsite , such as twelve. The editor may select enhanced book memos because the editor finds them interesting, or because the creator of the enhanced book memo has paid to have their enhanced book memo shown. Each suggested enhanced book memo can be saved to the user's memobook, using the indications shown in .","\u201cSuggestions from Usage\u201d changes the display to a predetermined number of enhanced book memos automatically selected by mainsite  based on collaborative filtering of the user's saved enhanced book memos. Collaborative filtering is a method of making automatic predictions about the most recent interests of a user by seeing what other users with similar interests also find of interest. Each suggested enhanced book memo can be saved to the user's memobook, using the indications shown in .","\u201cSuggestions from Friends\u201d shows individual enhanced book memos, and lists of enhanced book memos, sent to this user by other registered users who are not on this user's access control whitelist, and who are not on this user's access control blacklist. Each suggested enhanced book memo can be saved to the user's memobook, using the indications shown in .","\u201cPopular Now\u201d shows a predetermined number of usermade enhanced book memos, such as eight, that were indicated as shareable by the creating user, and fit the popularity criteria selected by this user via the Preference menu of first row . Usermade enhanced book memos are discussed below with regard to .","Main area  of memobook  has left-pointing arrow  fixed at its left side, right-pointing arrow  fixed at its right side, and displays two enhanced book memos. Left and right arrows ,  enable the user to change which enhanced book memos are displayed, as if the bookmarks are lined up horizontally, and can be examined two at a time.","An enhanced book memo has a Type (see Type menu of second row ); a Title; an associated thumbnail image; optional text areas that include text only, hyperlinks to other websites, such as a webpage of partnersite , text input fields for text that is to be sent somewhere, such as to partnersite , and\/or a field in which the user can write a note to jog their own memory or for the benefit of someone to whom the enhanced book memo is sent by the user; optional associated multimedia files such as graphics, photographs, audio files and\/or audio\/video files, generally provided by the editor who created the book memo, but in some cases, a field enabling uploading by a user to their own book memo (see ); and administrative information such as topics relating to the enhanced book memo, the date the enhanced book memo was created and\/or updated, and who created the enhanced book memo. In some embodiments, the enhanced book memo also includes the location from which the enhanced book memo was saved to the memobook.","Examples of enhanced book memos are provided in , discussed below.","In main area , underneath each of the enhanced book memos is a function Delete  and two drop-down menus, indicated by inverted triangles, Share  and Move .","Delete  enables a user to delete the enhanced book memo from memobook .","Share  enables a user to send an enhanced book memo to another registered user by providing the username (the recipient sees the enhanced book memo in their \u201cSuggestions from Friends\u201d section), or to a non-registered user by providing an email address or a phone number for text messaging a link to the enhanced book memo. Generally, non-registered members can see most of the content of enhanced book memos, but they may need to register to see certain content such as \u201cinsider tips\u201d or notes added by registered users other than the sending registered user.","Move  enables a user to move an enhanced book memo from the \u201cAll\u201d (default) part of memobook  to one of the user's lists. In this embodiment, to move an enhanced book memo to a list shared from another user, this user must explicitly send the enhanced book memo to the other user who can then add it to the shared list.","At the bottom-most area of the main area of the memobook, under each enhanced book memo is sequence identifier  indicating \u201cN\u201d of \u201cM\u201d where N is the sequence number and M is the total number of enhanced book memos. In some embodiments, instead of the \u201cN of M\u201d format, there is a progress bar that is movable from left to right to indicate what portion of the total is displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["300","310"]},"The purpose of the format of  is to enable a user to quickly assess a large group of enhanced book memos.","In main area  of memobook , a matrix of thumbnail images for respective enhanced book memos are displayed along with the title of the enhanced book memo. When the user hovers the cursor over the thumbnail or title, a pop-up window appears showing the full enhanced book memo (see ).  shows a matrix having four columns and five rows, for a total of twenty thumbnails. Using the left-pointing and right-pointing arrows, the display of thumbnails \u201cslides\u201d by one column at a time to the left or right.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B","b":["410","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["410","416","412","414","418","420","422","424","426","428","430","432","434","440","450","410","460","100","470","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["510","516","200","512","514","518","530","528","526","527","520","520","522","524","532","534","536","538","540","100","540","550","510","560","100","570","100"]},"The feature of text changing depending on a user's location is particularly useful for vendors having many locations in one city, such as parking lots or coffee cafes; the user can quickly find the nearest location by simply checking their memobook.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]},"Data storage  at mainsite  serves as a central repository for all enhanced book memos at all sites, that is, mainsite  and partnersite . In contrast, in the embodiment of , enhanced book memos for partnersite  are stored in data storage  at partnersite . Having a central repository makes it easier for mainsite  to ensure all enhanced book memos are processed similarly.","In some embodiments, when a user saves an enhanced book memo to their memobook, a pointer to the enhanced book memo, as stored in central repository , is added to the user's memobook in user data .","Mainsite  provides an API for creating enhanced book memos, adding them to central repository , and indicating the availability of an enhanced book memo at partnersite . Accordingly, in the embodiment of , developers are not restricted to the enhanced book memo creation tools available at mainsite .","To improve the utility of the user's memobook, it is recognized that the user ought to be able to create his or her own enhanced book memos, so that the user can gather all information they are interested in into a single place. Accordingly, a facility is provided whereby a user can make a usermade enhanced book memo for a conventional website, store their usermade enhanced book memo in their memobook thereby making it available for sharing, and optionally add their usermade enhanced book memo to a pool of other usermade enhanced book memos for possible inclusion in the \u201cPopular Now\u201d feature of the memobook. In some variations of the present invention, usermade enhanced book memos are also included in the \u201cSuggestions from Usage\u201d portion of the memobook. Usage of the usermade enhanced book memos may be recorded in usage data  of mainsite .","To be able to create usermade enhanced book memos, the user sets his or her registration information (not shown) to download a browser plug-in software program. Mainsite  then downloads a book memo maker application program that is installed as part of the user's browser's toolbar in large device . When the user is at a website, such as nonpartysite , that is not already configured with enhanced book memos, the user clicks on the book memo maker program, or otherwise begins its operation. The program creates a pop-up (modal) window on the user's browser, which also displays a web page of nonpartysite .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":"600"},"At the top of the window, there is administrative information that is automatically filled in by book memo maker , including the date of creation of the enhanced book memo  and the address of the webpage  associated with the enhanced book memo. In some embodiments, the book memo need not be associated with a web page. The user selects which type  of enhanced book memo this is, from the types defined by mainsite  (see row  of memobook ).","The user then drags, or cuts and pastes, an image from the current web page into thumbnail field  for book memo maker , which automatically resizes it to an appropriate size for a thumbnail image. To the right of the thumbnail field are selection buttons  so that the user can indicate the copyright status of the image, either public domain, or to be checked by mainsite . Generally, if the user does not share this book memo, there will be no copyright problem. However, if the user wants to share this book memo, mainsite  takes suitable action to obtain permission to use the thumbnail image, such as preparing and sending an email to the administrator for nonpartysite , listed in the WHOIS database.","Next, the user provides title  for the enhanced book memo, and then descriptive information . Optionally, the user enters personal note  in the enhanced book memo.","Next, the user can upload a file into area  that becomes part of this book memo, the file representing text or multimedia, i.e., graphics, image, audio or audio\/video, and provide description  of the uploaded material. When the user device has scan capability, the file can be scanned directly into the book memo. To the right of the upload\/scan field are selection buttons  so that the user can indicate the copyright status of the image, either public domain, or to be checked by mainsite .","Then, the user selects which topic(s)  the enhanced book memo relates to, from a menu of topics provided by book memo maker  and\/or by entering their own topic keywords.","The user can then configure automatic reminder  to themselves, which mainsite  sends according to the user's notice preference.","Finally, the user indicates via selector  whether they wish to contribute this enhanced book memo to a pool of usermade enhanced book memos maintained by mainsite , and whether they wish to send this enhanced book memo to anyone in particular, from drop-down list , by entering phone number  of the destination device, or by entering email address  of the destination.","When the user is satisfied with the enhanced book memo, he or she actuates Save button  on the bottom of book memo maker , enabling the user to save the enhanced book memo to any of their created lists.","Returning to , the enhanced book memo browser plug-in at large device  also enables the user to access their memobook, stored in data storage  at mainsite , even when the user is not at mainsite , as long as the user's browser is connected to communication network .","Medium device  includes an enhanced book memo application program, downloaded by the user to medium device  from mainsite . The application program enables the user to access their memobook, stored in data storage  at mainsite , even when the user is not at mainsite , as long as medium device  has a connection to communication network . In some embodiments, the enhanced book memo application program downloaded to medium device  enables the creation of user made book memos, as described with regard to .","Small device  includes an enhanced book memo application program, downloaded by the user to small device  from mainsite . The application program enables the user to access their memobook, stored in data storage  at mainsite , even when the user is not at mainsite , as long as small device  has a connection to communication network . In some embodiments, the enhanced book memo application program downloaded to small device  enables the creation of user made book memos, as described with regard to .","Librarysite  is a source of various browser plug-ins and downloadable application programs. Each of the enhanced book memo browser plug-in and the enhanced book memo application program may be downloaded to a user device from librarysite , as an alternative to downloading from mainsite .","Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention, and various modifications thereof, have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to these precise embodiments and the described modifications, and that various changes and further modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"The set-up of an enhanced bookmark will now be described.","At step , a human editor (not shown, but could be at nonpartysite , or could use a user device such as user device ) assembles the information for an enhanced bookmark, and via communication network , sends the enhanced bookmark to mainsite . At step , mainsite  receives the enhanced bookmark and stores it in EBM storage  (see ). Then, at step , the human editor edits a webpage stored in page storage  coupled to partnersite , to include an enhanced bookmark indicator that points to the enhanced bookmark stored in EBM storage at step . At step , partnersite  stores the webpage with the enhanced bookmark indicator in page storage , in lieu of the webpage without the enhanced bookmark indicator.","It will be appreciated that the webpages may be stored at mainsite , instead of at partnersite .","At step , the user of user device  (or  or ) creates a membook at mainsite . At step  mainsite  stores the user's memobook in user storage .","It will be appreciated that steps - may precede steps -, or may occur concurrently.","The operation of an enhanced bookmark will now be described.","At step , the user requests a webpage from partnersite . At step , partnersite  receives the request and responds by serving the webpage with the enhanced bookmark indicator to the user. User device  displays the webpage with the enhanced bookmark indicator.","At step , the user actuates the enhanced bookmark indicator, as described above, such as by clicking on it; user device  sends the user's actuation to mainsite . At step , mainsite  receives the actuation and updates the user's memobook to include the enhanced bookmark information. Any suitable update technique may be used. At step , mainsite  sends an acceptance update for the enhanced bookmark to user device . At step , user device  changes the display of the enhanced bookmark indicator on the webpage, as described above, to indicate that the associated enhanced bookmark information has been saved to the user's memobook.","Some time later, at step , the human editor creates an enhanced bookmark update, which may comprise adding information to the existing enhanced bookmark or editing the existing enhanced bookmark, and send the enhanced bookmark update to mainsite . At step , mainsite  updates the stored enhanced bookmark information in EBM storage , and if necessary, in user memobook storage . It will be appreciated that if the memobook has only a pointer to the enhanced bookmark, then it is not necessary to update the memobook. However, if the memobook includes the enhanced bookmark information, then the memobook must be updated. At step , mainsite  sends an enhanced bookmark update notice to user device . At step , user device  receives the enhanced bookmark update notice.","Then, at the user's convenience, at step , the user requests his or her memobook from mainsite . At step , mainsite  receives the request and serves the memobook to the user. User device  displays the memobook to the user.","It will be appreciated that steps - may additionally occur prior to steps -."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
