---
title: Hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) mapping for carrier aggregation (CA)
abstract: Technology to support mapping for Hybrid Automatic Retransmission re-Quest (HARQ) for Carrier Aggregation (CA) is disclosed. One method can include a user equipment (UE) identifying, within a radio frame, a type 2 DownLink (DL) sub-frame within a virtual bundling window associated with a Secondary Component Carrier (SCC). The type 2 DL sub-frame can be virtually moved from a Primary Component Carrier (PCC) for HARQ-ACKnowledge (HARQ-ACK) multiplexing of the virtual bundling window. The UE can extract a Component Carrier Element (CCE) number for a first CCE used by a Physical Downlink Control CHannel (PDCCH) transmission corresponding to the type 2 DL sub-frame. The UE can determine a Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) resource for carrying a HARQ-ACK multiplexing message based on the CCE number when a PCC window size of the PCC is greater than an SCC window size of the SCC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094960&OS=09094960&RS=09094960
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09094960
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130329
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example Embodiments"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/653,369, filed May 30, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/667,325, filed Jul. 2, 2012.","Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node (e.g., a transmission station) and a wireless device (e.g., a mobile device). Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) in a downlink (DL) transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access (SC-FDMA) in an uplink (UL) transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 standard (e.g., 802.16e, 802.16m), which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX (Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access), and the IEEE 802.11 standard, which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.","In 3GPP radio access network (RAN) LTE systems, the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Node Bs (also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs, enhanced Node Bs, eNodeBs, or eNBs) and Radio Network Controllers (RNCs), which communicates with the wireless device, known as a user equipment (UE). The downlink (DL) transmission can be a communication from the node (e.g., eNodeB) to the wireless device (e.g., UE), and the uplink (UL) transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.","In LTE, data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH). A physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time-division duplexing (TDD) or frequency-division duplexing (FDD). Time-division duplexing (TDD) is an application of time-division multiplexing (TDM) to separate downlink and uplink signals (or separate signals to a UE or from the UE in D2D communication). In TDD, downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency (i.e., shared carrier frequency) where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals, so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals, such as a downlink or uplink, are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub-channels in one communication channel, but are physically transmitted on different resources. In frequency-division duplexing (FDD), an uplink transmission and a downlink transmission (or a transmission to and from a UE in D2D communication) can operate using different frequency carriers (i.e. separate carrier frequency for each transmission direction). In FDD, interference can be avoided because the downlink signals use a different frequency carrier from the uplink signals.","Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated, and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.","Before the present invention is disclosed and described, it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures, process steps, or materials disclosed herein, but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.","An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","An increase in the amount of wireless data transmission has created congestion in wireless networks using licensed spectrum to provide wireless communication services for wireless devices, such as smart phones and tablet devices. The congestion is especially apparent in high density and high use locations such as urban locations and universities.","One technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices is through the use carrier aggregation of multiple smaller bandwidths to form a virtual wideband channel at a wireless device (e.g., UE). In carrier aggregation (CA) multiple component carriers (CC) can be aggregated and jointly used for transmission to\/from a single terminal. Carriers can be signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier can be determined by the aggregated carrier's bandwidth in the frequency domain. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations can become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["210","212","214","10","216","218","220"]},"Carrier aggregation (CA) enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user's wireless device and a node. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances, the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. Carrier aggregation provides a broader choice to the wireless devices, enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations, such as streaming video or communicating large data files.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 2B-2C","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"]},"Network symmetric (or asymmetric) carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) component carriers offered by a network in a sector. UE symmetric (or asymmetric) carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) component carriers configured for a UE. The number of DL CCs may be at least the number of UL CCs. A system information block type 2 (SIB2) can provide specific linking between the DL and the UL.  illustrates a block diagram of a symmetric-asymmetric carrier aggregation configuration, where the carrier aggregation is symmetric between the DL and UL for the network and asymmetric between the DL and UL for the UE.  illustrates a block diagram of an asymmetric-symmetric carrier aggregation configuration, where the carrier aggregation is asymmetric between the DL and UL for the network and symmetric between the DL and UL for the UE.","For each UE, a CC can be defined as a primary cell (PCell). Different UEs may not necessarily use a same CC as their PCell. The PCell can be regarded as an anchor carrier for the UE and the PCell can thus be used for control signaling functionalities, such as radio link failure monitoring, hybrid automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK), and PUCCH resource allocations (RA). If more than one CC is configured for a UE, the additional CCs can be denoted as secondary cells (SCells) for the UE.","A component carrier can be used to carry channel information via a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical (PHY) layer in a uplink transmission between a node (e.g., eNodeB) and the wireless device (e.g., UE) using a generic long term evolution (LTE) frame structure, as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated, a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard (WiMax), an IEEE 802.11 standard (WiFi), or another type of communication standard using SC-FDMA or OFDMA may also be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["100","110","120","120","130","130","130","130","130","130","136","132","140","142","146","150","150"],"sub":["f","slot"],"i":["i ","a ","b","a","b","i","m","n ","i ","i ","a ","b "]},"An uplink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel (PUSCH) or control information on a Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH). In LTE, the uplink physical channel (PUCCH) carrying uplink control information (UCI) can include channel state information (CSI) reports, Hybrid Automatic Retransmission reQuest (HARQ) ACKnowledgment\/Negative ACKnowledgment (ACK\/NACK) and uplink scheduling requests (SR).","The wireless device (e.g., UE) can provide HARQ-ACK feedback for a PDSCH using a PUCCH. The PUCCH can support multiple formats (i.e., PUCCH format) with various modulation and coding schemes (MCS), as shown for LTE in Table 1. Similar information to Table 1 can be shown in 3GPP LTE standard Release 11 (e.g., V11.1.0 (2012 December)) Technical Specification (TS) 36.211 Table 5.4-1. For example, PUCCH format 1b can be used to convey a two-bit HARQ-ACK, which can be used for carrier aggregation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"PUCCH","Modulation","Number of bits per"]},{"entry":[{},"format","scheme","subframe, M"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","N\/A","N\/A"]},{"entry":[{},"1a","BPSK","1"]},{"entry":[{},"1b","QPSK","2"]},{"entry":[{},"2","QPSK","20"]},{"entry":[{},"2a","QPSK + BPSK","21"]},{"entry":[{},"2b","QPSK + QPSK","22"]},{"entry":[{},"3","QPSK","48"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Legacy LTE TDD can support asymmetric UL-DL allocations by providing seven different semi-statically configured uplink-downlink configurations. Table 2 illustrates seven UL-DL configurations used in LTE, where \u201cD\u201d represents a downlink subframe, \u201cS\u201d represents a special subframe, and \u201cU\u201d represents an uplink subframe. In an example, the special subframe can operate or be treated as a downlink subframe. Similar information to Table 2 can be shown in 3GPP LTE TS 36.211 Table 4.2-2.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Uplink-downlink","Subframe number"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"11"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["configuration","0","1","2","3","4","5","6","7","8","9"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["0","D","S","U","U","U","D","S","U","U","U"]},{"entry":["1","D","S","U","U","D","D","S","U","U","D"]},{"entry":["2","D","S","U","D","D","D","S","U","D","D"]},{"entry":["3","D","S","U","U","U","D","D","D","D","D"]},{"entry":["4","D","S","U","U","D","D","D","D","D","D"]},{"entry":["5","D","S","U","D","D","D","D","D","D","D"]},{"entry":["6","D","S","U","U","U","D","S","U","U","D"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As illustrated by Table 2, UL-DL configuration 0 can include 6 uplink subframes in subframes 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, and 9, and 4 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0, 1, 5, and 6; and UL-DL configuration 5 can include one uplink subframe in subframe 2, and 9 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0, 1, and 3-9.","As an underlying requirement in some examples, cells of the network can change UL-DL (TDD) configurations synchronously in order to avoid the interference. However, such a requirement can constrain the traffic management capabilities in different cells of the network. The legacy LTE TDD set of configurations can provide DL subframe allocations in the range between 40% and 90%, as shown in Table 2. The UL and DL subframes allocation within a radio frame can be reconfigured through system information broadcast signaling (e.g., system information block [SIB]). Hence, the UL-DL allocation once configured can be expected to vary semi-statically.","A property of TDD is that a number of UL and DL subframes can be different as shown in Table 2 and often the number of DL subframes can be more than the number of UL subframes for a radio frame. In configurations where more DL subframes are used than UL subframes, multiple DL subframes can be associated with one single UL subframe for the transmission of a corresponding control signals. A configuration-specific HARQ-ACK timing relationship can be defined (e.g., 3GPP LTE standard Release 11 (e.g., V11.1.0 (2012 December)) TS 36.213 Table 10.1.3.1-1). If a UE is scheduled in a multiple of DL subframes, which can be associated with one UL subframe, the UE can transmit multiple ACK\/NAK (ACK\/NACK) bits in that UL subframe. A number of DL subframes with HARQ-ACK feedback on one single UL subframe can comprise one bundling window.","As shown in , the subframe 0 and 1 can comprise one bundling window on a PCell according a predefined HARQ-ACK timing relation for UL-DL configuration 1, while correspondingly, subframe 9 of previous radio frame, subframe 0, 1 and 3 comprise the HARQ-ACK bundling window on a SCell according to the HARQ-ACK timing defined for configuration 2 for uplink subframe 7. In an example, HARQ-ACK bundling window may not be used for configuration 5, with 9 DL subframes.","An advantage of a Time Division Duplex (TDD) system can be a flexible resource utilization through different TDD configurations to better match the uplink and downlink traffic characteristics of the cell. By configuring different TDD configurations, the ratio between available UpLink (UL) and DownLink (DL) resources can range from 3UL:2DL (6UL:4DL) to 1 UL:9DL. In legacy LTE TDD (e.g., LTE Release 10 (Rel-10) specification), only the aggregation of TDD Component Carriers (CCs) of a same UL-DL configuration may be defined and supported. While the same UL-DL configuration can simplify a design and operation of CC, the same UL-DL configuration can also impose some limitations.","In an example, inter-band carrier aggregation (CA) for a TDD system with different uplink-downlink configurations on different bands can be supported. For instance, more than one TDD carrier can be deployed by a single TDD operator and the carriers can be aggregated at a single base station (e.g., node). Besides, a separation between two carrier frequencies can be large enough to avoid UL-DL interference from a same device. Some of the benefits of inter-band CA with different TDD configurations on different bands can be include (1) legacy system co-existence, (2) heterogeneous network (HetNet) support, (3) aggregation of traffic-dependent carriers, (4) flexible configuration (e.g., more UL subframe in lower bands for better coverage, and more DL subframes in higher bands), and (5) higher peak rate.","Supporting Inter-band TDD Carrier Aggregation (CA) with different uplink-downlink configurations can be used to aggregate component carriers (CC) with different DL\/UL configurations. To provide high peak data rate enhancement benefits to both full- and half-duplex UEs, HARQ (Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest) ACK\/NACK feedback for downlink (DL) data may use a PUCCH only transmitted on Primary Cell (PCell), use legacy HARQ-ACK timing for PCell PDSCH by following a PCell SIB type 1 (SIB1) UL-DL configuration, and use HARQ-ACK timing for the PDSCH of a Secondary Cell (SCell) following a specific reference UL-DL configuration (e.g., PCell and SCell UL-DL configuration) as shown in Table 3 illustrated in .","Interband TDD CA with different UL-DL configurations in different bands can be supported. For example, an SCell PDSCH HARQ reference timing can be determined from a PCell UL-DL configuration and a SCell UL-DL configuration, as shown in Table 3 illustrated in . Table 3 (i.e., ) illustrates the UL-DL configuration number of PDSCH HARQ-ACK timing reference for SCell. A HARQ-ACK timing of PCell PDSCH, the scheduling timing of PCell PUSCH, the HARQ timing of PCell PUSCH can use the PCell SIB1 configuration. A UE can be configured with PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 1b with channel selection (CS) for HARQ-ACK transmission for TDD inter-band carrier aggregation (CA) with different UL-DL configurations on different bands.","According to the HARQ-ACK timing table (i.e., Table 3) for the SCell PDSCH, the size of HARQ-ACK bundling window can be different between PCell and SCell.  illustrates an example where the PCell is configured with TDD UL\/DL configuration 1 and SCell is configured with TDD UL\/DL configuration 2. Since the SCell can follow a different DL HARQ timing from the PCell, not only the bundling window of the SCell can be different from the PCell, but also the number of the HARQ-ACK bits (corresponding to the number of the DL subframes) in the SCell bundling window can be different from the PCell bundling window. As a result, legacy HARQ-ACK bit mapping and bundling rules may no longer applicable for a SCell UL-DL configuration with a different UL-DL configuration from the PCell or legacy HARQ-ACK bit mapping and bundling rules may no longer support a case with the SCell UL-DL configuration different from the PCell UL-DL configuration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"]},"Several solutions can be used in a case where the SCell UL-DL configuration differs from the PCell UL-DL configuration. For example, a \u2018virtual\u2019 HARQ-ACK bundling window generation operation or HARQ-ACK \u201clook-up\u201d mapping table can be proposed to improve a Downlink (DL) throughput. An additional issue for PUCCH format 1b channel selection mode b can be PUCCH resources mapping for mode b. In a legacy intra-band CA, the PUCCH resource mapping in case of non-cross-CC scheduling can include: Two PUCCH resources for PCell that can be implicitly derived from PDCCHs having DAI=1, 2 (DAI is a downlink assignment index) for PCell when the PDSCH without PDCCH (e.g., semi-persistent scheduling (SPS)) is not present; two PUCCH resources for PCell that can be derived from a SPS resource and a PDCCH having DAI=1 for a PCell when PDSCH without PDCCH (e.g., SPS) is present; or two PUCCH resources for SCell that can be indicated by a ARI (ACK\/NACK Resource Indicator).","A legacy PUCCH resource mapping method may not be directly applied for a \u2018virtual\u2019 HARQ-ACK bundling window generation method.  illustrates an example of a \u2018virtual\u2019 HARQ-ACK bundling window generation method. As shown in the right of , a DL subframe with \u201cDAI=2\u201d in the PCell bundling window can be \u201cvirtually\u201d taken from the SCell, the DAI value can be counted based on the generated virtual bundling. However, a corresponding PUCCH resources in a PUCCH resource mapping table may not be implicitly derived from the PDCCHs having \u2018DAI=2\u2019 on PCell, to avoid a potential PUCCH resource collision between CA and none-CA capable UEs. PUCCH resources mapping methods for various PUCCH feedback schemes can be defined to complete a PUCCH channel selection with a format 1b design for inter-band CA.","To facilitate the descriptions and illustrations used herein, two types of PDSCH subframes can be defined per CC according to a particular downlink subframe handing in a \u201cvirtual\u201d HARQ-ACK bundling window construction process as shown in . A type 1 subframe can include a subframe which is not \u201cremoved\u201d from one Cell to the other (e.g., from the PCell to the SCell or the SCell to the PCell) for \u201cvirtual\u201d HARQ-ACK bundling window construction. A type 2 subframe can be a subframe which is \u201cvirtually\u201d removed from one Cell to the other (e.g., from the PCell to the SCell or the SCell to the PCell) to generate the \u201cvirtual\u201d HARQ-ACK bundling window.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"]},"Various methods (at least four different methods) for deriving PUCCH resources can be performed for a corresponding PDCCH with the DAI value equal to \u20181\u2019 or \u20182\u2019 is carried on a type 2 subframe after a cross-CC DAI counting operation.","In a first method (i.e., method 1), PUCCH resources corresponding to type 2 subframe(s) can be signaled by Radio Resource Control (RRC) signaling. As shown in Table 4 illustrated in , four sets of PUCCH channels indexed by a transmit power control (TPC) command (e.g., \u201800\u2019, \u201801\u2019, \u201810\u2019, and \u201811\u2019) can be configured by RRC signaling with a one-to-one association between type 2 downlink subframes and each set of PUCCH channels. Each set of PUCCH channels can comprise of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["M","p"]},{"mi":["M","s"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":",","mn":"2"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["PUCCH,0","PUCCH,M-1"],"sup":["(2)","(2)"]},"In the Case A, when M<Mand substantially simultaneously PDSCH with \u201cDAI=1\u201d is transmitted on type 2 subframe on the PCell, a default PUCCH resource (e.g., a 1st PUCCH resource value configured by higher layers) can be used by the UE. Alternatively, the UE can assume the same ARI value using TPC bits of SCell as an index to one of the four PUCCH resources indices configured by RRC, with the mapping defined in Table 4 (i.e., ). Case A and case B can be considered separately after one specific PUCCH resources set is selected.","Case A can apply without semi-persistence scheduling (SPS) PDSCH transmission on both the PCell and the SCell. After a virtual bundling window operation, if the downlink assignment index (DAI) value in the PDCCH of type 2 subframe \u2018i\u2019, (0\u2266i\u2266M\u22121) equal to \u2018j\u2019, (j=1 or 2), then a corresponding PUCCH channel value can be determined by Expression 1:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"n","mrow":[{"mi":"PUCCH","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}]},{"mi":"n","mrow":[{"mi":["PUCCH","i"],"mo":","},{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"if","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["M","p"]}},"mo":"<","msub":{"mi":["M","s"]}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"n","mrow":[{"mi":"PUCCH","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}]},{"mi":"n","mrow":[{"mi":["PUCCH","i"],"mo":","},{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"if","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["M","p"]}},"mo":">","msub":{"mi":["M","s"]}}}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mi":"Expression","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 10","sub":["p","s","p","s"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["M","p"]},{"mi":["M","s"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":",","mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"=","mn":"1."}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":{},"sub":["PUCCH,0","PUCCH,0"],"sup":["(2)","(2) "],"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"]},"Case B can apply when one of the type 2 subframes is a PDSCH transmission without a corresponding PDCCH detected (i.e., the subframe is scheduled by semi-persistent scheduling (SPS)), as illustrated in . Case B can occurs when M\u2267M+2. A similar PUCCH resources mapping operation to Case A can be applied to Case B except the following operations can be used: A HARQ-ACK(0) can be an acknowledgement (ACK), Negative ACK (NACK), or discontinuous transmission (DTX) response (i.e., ACK\/NACK\/DTX response) for a SPS PDSCH transmission and the corresponding value of ncan be determined according to PUCCH resources configured by a higher layer, denoted as n. A n=nwhen \u201cDAI=1\u201d is detected in the PDCCH of type 2 subframe \u2018i\u2019, (0\u2266i\u2266M\u22121). Using an example with the configuration 4 on the PCell and the configuration 0 on the SCell, case B can be illustrated in  with a type 2 subframe used as SPS PDSCH.  illustrates an example PUCCH resources mapping for HARQ-ACK feedback in the Case B.","In an alternate first method (i.e., method 1-1 or another explicit resource allocation method), a maximum of two PUCCH resources can be given by RRC signaling and the ARI usage. The TPC values in downlink control information (DCI) for the PCell can be used as real TPC and the TPC values for the SCell can be used as ARI. In an example where M\u2267M+2 (where M\u22661, M\u22661), the type 2 subframe can be virtually moved from the SCell to the PCell. If the DAI value in type 2 subframe is 1 or 2, the PUCCH resource induced by a type 2 subframe may not be obtained since the maximum number of explicit PUCCH resources is two. Therefore, another solution can be: The eNB configures four sets of PUCCH resources and each set consists of three PUCCH resources; then, the TPC field in DL assignment used as the ARI (e.g., for the SCell and for the type 2 subframe) indicates actual PUCCH resource set to be used (e.g., using Table 5 illustrated in ); and the ARIs can be the same for the DL subframes except for the DL subframes used as real TPC. Table 5 (i.e., ) illustrates a table of a PUCCH resource value according to the ARI (e.g., the TPC command for PUCCH).","In another method (e.g., second method or method 2), flexible PUCCH resources mapping can be associated with type 2 subframe(s). Method 1 can provide a common PUCCH resources mapping solution to enable a virtual bundling window method applicable for the various UL-DL configurations combinations (e.g., PCell and SCell UL-DL configurations combinations). For method 1, the control overhead can be large considering the PUCCH resources associated with type 2 subframes can be reserved by the eNB (e.g., node) if PUCCH format 1b with channel selection is configured. Another solution can be used to reduce the control overhead in a case where M>M, as illustrated below.","If the type 2 PDSCH is a PDSCH transmission indicated by the detection of corresponding PDCCH or a PDCCH indicates a downlink SPS release, the PUCCH resources associated with the type-2 subframe \u2018i\u2019, (0\u2266i\u2266M\u22121) can be implicitly mapped using Expression 2.\n\n=(1)\u00d7\u2003\u2003[Expression 2]\n","where Nis configured by higher layer, N=max{0,\u2514[N\u00d7(N\u00d7p\u22124)]\/36\u2518}, p is a value out of {0, 1, 2, 3} which makes N\u2266n<Nand \u2018m\u2019 is the DAI index value of type 2 subframe within the bundling window on PCell before removing the type 2 subframe (from the PCell to the SCell) to construct the virtual bundling window, and nis the number of a first CCE used for transmission of the corresponding PDCCH in type-2 subframe \u2018i\u2019, while M=Mwhich indicates the bundling window size before type-2 subframe removing.","For a PUCCH resource associated with type 2 PDSCH without a corresponding PDCCH detected (e.g., SPS) explicit PUCCH resource can be configured by RRC signaling as in the method 1. For a case of M<M, explicit resources configuration can be used for type-2 subframes as the method 1.","After the corresponding PUCCH resources (n, . . . , n) are generated, a same one-to-one mapping method between n0\u2266i\u22663) and n(0\u2266j\u2266M\u22121) as in method 1 can be used for the HARQ-ACK feedback to utilize a legacy mapping table (e.g., Tables 9-16 illustrated in ).","In another method (e.g., third method or method 3), a common HARQ-ACK bundling window selection with a specific HARQ-ACK states padding operation can be used. The third method can differ from previous methods and may not be based on a PUCCH resources mapping of virtual bundling windows generation method. In method 3, a HARQ-ACK feedback candidate scheme can be used for inter-band TDD CA. Compared with method 1 and method 2, a legacy PUCCH resources mapping rule for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection can be fully reused by method 3 which can use less standardization for legacy HARQ-ACK multiplexing tables.","As shown in  and for illustration purposes, a smaller bundling window size can be referred to as Mand the size of the corresponding larger bundling window associated with a same single uplink subframe for PUCCH HARQ-ACK transmission can be referred to as M.  schematically illustrates a HARQ-ACK bundling window size for inter-band TDD CA.","In an example, the UE can determine a HARQ-ACK(j) where 0\u2266j\u2266M\u22121 for each serving cell. In a first operation (e.g., step 1), a common bundling window size can be determined, where one common HARQ-ACK bundling window size \u201cM\u201d is determined as M=max (M,M). According to the definition of Mand M, the expression (or equation) for a common bundling window size calculation can be further simplified as \u201cM=M\u201d. The UE can perform channel selection according to a legacy channel selection mapping tables (e.g., Tables 9-16 illustrated in ) corresponding to bundling window size \u2018M\u2019.","In a second operation (e.g., step 2), spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within a DL subframe can be performed when the transmission mode (TM) configured for the serving cell supports up to two transmission blocks (TBs). In another example, spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within a DL subframe can be performed when the transmission mode (TM) configured with the serving cell as one of the cells with M=0 and M=1.","In a third operation (e.g., step 3), the HARQ-ACK(j) can be generated where 0\u2266j\u2266M\u22121. The third operation can transform the bundling window size Mfor the smaller cell (e.g., PCell or SCell) to the bundling window size Mfor the larger cell. The bundling window size min (M, M) can be different from a legacy design. For illustration purposes, M<Mcan be used. The third operation can include two sub-steps, referred as 3-0 (or operation 3-0) and step 3-1 (or operation 3-1). For a serving cell with bundling window size \u201cM\u201d, the UE can generate HARQ-ACK(j), 0\u2266j\u2266M\u22121 for the PDSCH transmission within the bundling window according to a legacy HARQ-ACK state mapping principle first (i.e., step 3-0). Then, in step 3-1, the UE can append the (M\u2212M) additional HARQ-ACK(i) with a predetermined state (e.g., \u2018DTX\u2019; any predetermined value such as ACK, NACK, or DTX can possible to be appended as long as the predetermined value is known by the eNB and the UE) where M\u2266i\u2266M\u2212M\u22121 when spatial HARQ-ACK bundling is performed or a single TB configured. The DTX appending can be referred to as DTX padding. In another example, any state (e.g., ACK, NACK, or DTX) chosen autonomously by the UE may also be possible, but the illustration is shown based on a \u2018DTX\u2019 state. In another configuration, the UE can append a 2\u00d7(M\u2212M) additional HARQ-ACK(i) with state \u2018DTX\u2019 where M\u2266i\u2266M\u2212M\u22121 except for special cases (e.g., Case 1 and Case 2).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 14","sub":["1","2","1","2","1"]},"For case 1, in step 3-1, instead of DTX appending, (ACK, NACK) is further mapped to (ACK, DTX, DTX, DTX) and (NACK, ACK) is mapped to (ACK, ACK, ACK, NACK\/DTX). Or alternatively, (ACK, NACK) is further mapped to (ACK, ACK, ACK, NACK\/DTX) and (NACK, ACK) is mapped to (ACK, DTX, DTX, DTX). Without the a special rule, the \u2018ACK,NACK\u2019 can be automatically mapped to \u2018ACK, NACK,DTX,DTX\u2019 according to a \u2018DTX padding\u2019 principle. For a case that M=2 and M=4, the HARQ-ACK(j) where 0\u2266j\u2266M\u22121 can be summarized in Table 6 illustrated in . Table 6 (i.e., ) illustrates a table used for HARQ-ACK generation for the cell with M=2 in the case of M=2 and M=4.","In case 2, M=2, M=3 and the (HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1)) can be mapped as (NACK,ACK) for the cell with M=2 in step 3-0 by following a legacy (LTE Release 10 (Rel-10)) HARQ-ACK mapping method.","For case 2, the UE can further map the HARQ-ACK feedback to a corresponding HARQ-ACK state as (HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2)=(ACK,ACK, ACK) in step 3-1. For a case that M=2, M=3, a HARQ-ACK states generation can be summarized in Table 7 illustrated in . Table 7 (i.e., ) illustrates a table used for HARQ-ACK generation for the cell with M=2 in the case of M=2 and M=3.","In a fourth operation (e.g., step 4), the UE can perform channel selection using legacy channel selection mapping tables corresponding to bundling window size \u2018M\u2019 according to the mapped HARQ-ACK(j) in step-3 for each cell where 0\u2266j\u2266M\u22661. The PUCCH resource mapping method can fully reused a legacy scheme for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection. In an example, a scheme for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection can be described in section 10.1.3.2.1 of 3GPP LTE TS 36.213 V11.1.0 (Release 11).","In another example, the UE can determine the bundling window size for M in carrier aggregation by max(M,M). For the serving cell having the smaller bundling window size, the predetermined state (e.g., DTX) can be padded by \u201cmax(M,M)\u2212min(M,M)\u201d with exception of certain states. For example, in case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=4, the state of \u201cACK,NACK\u201d for the serving cell with min(M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,DTX,DTX,DTX\u201d for the legacy mapping table. In case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=4, the state of \u201cNACK,ACK\u201d for the serving cell with min(M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,ACK,ACK,NACK\/DTX\u201d for the legacy mapping table. In case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=3, the state of \u201cNACK,ACK\u201d for the serving cell with min (M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,ACK,ACK\u201d for the legacy mapping table. Then, the legacy mapping table can be applied for channel selection where ACK represents a successful decoding for the corresponding PDSCH, the NACK represents decoding failure for the corresponding PDSCH, and DTX represents that the UE does not transmit any acknowledgement to PDSCH due to decoding fail for the corresponding PDCCH.","In an alternative example, the UE can determine the bundling window size for M in carrier aggregation by max(M,M). For the serving cell with smaller bundling window size, the predetermined state (e.g., DTX) can be padded by \u201cmax(M,M)-min(M,M)\u201d with exception of certain states. For example, in case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=4, the state of \u201cACK,NACK\u201d for the serving cell with min(M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,ACK,ACK,NACK\/DTX\u201d for the legacy mapping table. In case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=4, the state of \u201cNACK,ACK\u201d for the serving cell with min(M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,DTX,DTX,DTX\u201d for the legacy mapping table. In case of min(M,M)=2 and max(M,M)=3, the state of \u201cNACK,ACK\u201d for the serving cell with min(M,M)=2 can be mapped to \u201cACK,ACK,ACK\u201d for the legacy mapping table. Then, the legacy mapping table can be applied for channel selection where ACK represents a successful decoding for the corresponding PDSCH, the NACK represents decoding failure for the corresponding PDSCH, and DTX represents that UE does not transmit any acknowledgement to PDSCH due to decoding fail for the corresponding PDCCH.","In another method (e.g., fourth method or method 4), a HARQ-ACK look-up mapping table can be defined before reusing the legacy mapping table.  illustrates a HARQ-ACK \u201clook-up\u201d mapping table shown as Table 8. Table 8 illustrates a HARQ-ACK look-up mapping table for different UL-DL configuration of inter-band TDD CA. For a UE configured with PUCCH format 1b with channel selection for HARQ-ACK transmission, a procedure to determine the PUCCH resources can be described by four operation (e.g., steps).","In a first operation (e.g., step 1), the UE can selects the legacy mapping table with M=max (M,M)=Mfor HARQ feedback on PUCCH, where Mis the number of PDSCH subframe for the cell with smaller HARQ-ACK bundling window size and Mis the number of PDSCH subframe for the cell with the larger HARQ-ACK bundling window size.","In a second operation (e.g., step 2), for the PDSCH on the CC with bundling window size M, HARQ-ACK (j) (0\u2266j<M) can be generated as the ACK\/NACK\/DTX response for the PDSCH transmission with corresponding PDCCH and DAI value in the PDCCH equal to \u2018j+1\u2019 or for the PDCCH indicating downlink SPS release and with DAI value in the PDCCH equal to \u2018j+1\u2019. Then, using the look-up table, as shown in Table 6 (i.e., ) for M=4 or Table 7 (i.e., ) for M=3, the UE can re-map the HARQ-ACK (j) (0\u2266j<M) to a corresponding state characterized with a same index sharing, marked with HARQ-ACK (k) (0\u2266k<M). For example, assume that M=2, M=4 and {ACK, NACK} is generated based on PDSCH detection. Then after {ACK, NACK} is mapped, the UE can re-map the {ACK, NACK} to a corresponding HARQ-ACK state with the same index of M=4, that is the state {ACK, DTX, DTX, DTX}.","In a third operation (e.g., step 3), the HARQ-ACK mapping for the CC with bundling window size Mcan be a same size as a legacy HARQ-ACK mapping table and marked as HARQ-ACK (m) (0\u2266m<M).","In a fourth operation (e.g., step 4), the UE can perform channel selection based on the HARQ-ACK states HARQ-ACK (k) (0\u2266k<M) and HARQ-ACK (m) (0\u2266m<M) according to a HARQ-ACK mapping table (e.g., Tables 15-16 illustrated in ) with bundling window size M=Mwhen more than one CC is configured.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 31","FIG. 32"],"b":["0","1","2","3"]},"Table 17 (i.e., ) can summarize a legacy HARQ-ACK mapping table for more than one configured serving cell case. As shown in Table 17, an overlapped state can occur for both of \u2018N, any, any, any\u201d and \u201cA, D\/N, any, any except for A, D, D, D\u201d (last row of Table 17). An overlap state can occur when a state represents more than one state. Taking into account the overlap mapped state in Table 17, some performance degradations on the serving cell characteristic of the smaller bundling window size can occur due to \u2018DTX\u2019 state padding in the first solution above.","For instance, padding additional HARQ-ACK states with \u2018DTX\u2019 can result in the HARQ-ACK state being unknown at a node (e.g., eNB) side and therefore the scheduling of PDSCHs on PCell can be potentially restricted at the eNB resulting in substantial DL throughput loss as the PCell may not be practically usable. In another example, carrier aggregation functionality can be severely impacted or almost disabled implicitly when \u201cDTX\u201d padding method (e.g., first solution) is used for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection.","Based on the issue with the described \u201cDTX\u201d padding method, some mechanisms and solutions (e.g., method 3 or 4) can be used to alleviate the issue to enable CA functionality when PUCCH format 1b with channel selection and more than one CC with different UL-DL configurations are configured for the UE.","Another example provides a method  to support implicit mapping for Hybrid Automatic Retransmission re-Quest (HARQ) with Carrier Aggregation (CA) at a User Equipment (UE), as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine, computer circuitry, or a processor for the UE, where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non-transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of identifying, within a radio frame, a type 2 DownLink (DL) sub-frame within a virtual bundling window associated with a Secondary Component Carrier (SCC), wherein the type 2 DL sub-frame is virtually moved from a Primary Component Carrier (PCC) for HARQ-ACKnowledge (HARQ-ACK) multiplexing of the virtual bundling window, as in block . The operation of extracting a Component Carrier Element (CCE) number for a first CCE used by a Physical Downlink Control CHannel (PDCCH) transmission corresponding to the type 2 DL sub-frame follows, as in block . The next operation of the method can be determining a Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) resource for carrying a HARQ-ACK multiplexing message based on the CCE number when a PCC window size of the PCC is greater than an SCC window size of the SCC, as in block .","In an example, a selected number of DL sub-frames from the second bundling window can be selected from an end of the second bundling window and added to an end of DL sub-frames in the first bundling window. The first bundling window and the second bundling window can include multiple DL sub-frame sets associated with one UpLink (UL) sub-frame to carry the HARQ-ACK feedback according to Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standard Release 10 (or Release 11) for cell-specific Physical Downlink Shared CHannel (PDSCH) HARQ timing.","In another example, the method can further include: Extracting a Downlink Assignment Index (DAI) value from the PDCCH transmission corresponding to the type 2 DL sub-frame; and assigning the PUCCH resource to a channel value used in a legacy mapping table for HARQ-ACK multiplexing using the DAI value. the PUCCH resource nassociated with the type 2 DL sub-frame is represented by n=(M\u2212m\u22121)\u00d7N+m\u00d7N+n+N, or an integer i where (0\u2266i\u2266M\u22121), Nis configured by a higher layer, N=max{0,\u2514[N\u00d7(N\u00d7p\u22124)]\/36\u2518}, max{ } is a maximum function, Nis a downlink bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of N, Nis a resource block size in the frequency domain, expressed as a number of subcarriers, p is a value out of {0, 1, 2, 3} which makes N\u2266n<N, m is an index value of type 2 subframe within the bundling window on the PCC before removing the type 2 subframe to construct the virtual bundling window, nis a number of a first control channel element (CCE) used for transmission of a corresponding PDCCH in the type-2 subframe \u2018i\u2019, M=Mindicates a bundling window size before removing the type 2 subframe to construct the virtual bundling window, and Mrepresents the bundling window size for the PCC before removing the type 2 subframe to construct the virtual bundling window","In another configuration, the method can further include: Receiving a type 2 Physical Downlink Shared CHannel (PDSCH) transmission indicated by a corresponding PDCCH; or receiving a DL Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) release indicated by a corresponding PDCCH. In another example, the method can further include mapping the virtual bundling window to a legacy HARQ-ACK table from HARQ-ACK multiplexing tables 10.1.3-2 to 10.1.3-7 specified in Technical Specification (TS) 36.213 of Release 10 of Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards (e.g., Tables 9-14 illustrated in ).","Another example provides functionality  of computer circuitry of a processor on a user equipment (UE) operable to provide Hybrid Automatic Retransmission re-Quest-ACKnowledge (HARQ-ACK) responses, as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine, where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non-transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to determine a maximum size and a minimum size of a first bundling window on a first Component Carrier (CC) and a second bundling window on a second CC within a same radio frame, the first CC and the second CC having differing UpLink (UL)-DownLink (DL) configurations within the same radio frame, as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to map decoded DL sub-frames in a smaller of the first bundling window and the second bundling window with the minimum size to a small ordered series of HARQ-ACK states provided in a first legacy HARQ-ACK table using the minimum size, as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to re-map the small ordered series of HARQ-ACK states corresponding to the first legacy HARQ-ACK table to a padded ordered series of HARQ-ACK states provided in a second legacy HARQ-ACK table using the maximum size, as in block .","In an example, the computer circuitry configured to re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states can be further configured to: Pad the small ordered series of HARQ-ACK states with a number of instances of a predetermined HARQ-ACK state to form the padded ordered series of HARQ-ACK states; map the padded ordered series of HARQ-ACK states corresponding to the small ordered series of HARQ-ACK states using the second legacy HARQ-ACK table when the first ordered series does not include both an ACK state and a Negative ACK (NACK) state and the minimum is not two; and re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to a predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states corresponding to the second legacy HARQ-ACK table when the minimum is two and the first ordered series includes both the ACK state and at least one of the NACK state and a Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) state.","In another example, the computer circuitry configured to re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states for the minimum size of two and the maximum size of four can be further configured to: Determine a case when the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprises HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) equal to one of one of \u201cACK, NACK\u201d, \u201cACK, DTX\u201d, and \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d, as provided in the first legacy HARQ-ACK table; re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprising HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2), HARQ-ACK(3) equal to \u201cACK, DTX, DTX, DTX\u201d, as provided by the second legacy HARQ-ACK table, when HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) of the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states equals \u201cACK, NACK\u201d or \u201cACK, DTX\u201d; and re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprising HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2), HARQ-ACK(3) equal to one of \u201cACK, ACK, ACK, NACK\u201d and \u201cACK, ACK, ACK, DTX\u201d, as provided by the second legacy HARQ-ACK table, when HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) of the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states equals \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d.","In another configuration, the computer circuitry configured to re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states for the minimum size of two and the maximum size of four can be further configured to: Determine a case when the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprises HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) equal to one of one of \u201cACK, NACK\u201d, \u201cACK, DTX\u201d, and \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d, as provided in the first legacy HARQ-ACK table; re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprising HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2), HARQ-ACK(3) equal to one of \u201cACK, ACK, ACK, NACK\u201d and \u201cACK, ACK, ACK, DTX\u201d, as provided by the second legacy HARQ-ACK table, when HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) of the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states equals \u201cACK, NACK\u201d or \u201cACK, DTX\u201d; and re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprising HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2), HARQ-ACK(3) equal to \u201cACK, DTX, DTX, DTX\u201d, as provided by the second legacy HARQ-ACK table, when HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) of the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states equals \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d.","In another example, the computer circuitry configured to re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states for the minimum size of two and the maximum size of three can be further configured to: Determine a case when the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprises HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) equal to \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d, as provided in the first legacy HARQ-ACK table; and re-map the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states to the predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states comprising HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1), HARQ-ACK(2), equal to \u201cACK, ACK, ACK\u201d, as provided by the second legacy HARQ-ACK table, when HARQ-ACK(0), HARQ-ACK(1) of the first ordered series of HARQ-ACK states equals \u201cNACK, ACK\u201d.","In another configuration, the computer circuitry can be further configured to perform spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within DL sub-frames in the radio frame, when a corresponding Transmission Mode (TM) on at least one of the first CC and the second CC supports up to two Transmission Blocks (TBs) per sub-frame, and the minimum size does not equal zero and the maximum size does not equal one on a CC with a TM supporting up to two TBs.","In another example, the computer circuitry can be further configured to: Perform channel selection using a channel value corresponding to the padded or predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states provided in the second legacy HARQ-ACK table; and prepare a Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) format 1b message with a constellation point consistent with the padded or predefined ordered series of HARQ-ACK states provided in the second legacy HARQ-ACK table for transmission on a channel consistent with the channel selection.","In another configuration, the computer circuitry can be further configured to: select the first legacy HARQ-ACK table and the second legacy HARQ-ACK table from HARQ-ACK multiplexing tables 10.1.3-2 to 10.1.3-7 specified in Technical Specification (TS) 36.213 of Release 10 of Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards (e.g., Tables 9-14 illustrated in ) based on the minimum size for the first legacy HARQ-ACK table and the maximum size for the second legacy HARQ-ACK table.","In another example, the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine the number of instances of the predetermined HARQ-ACK state by which to pad the first series of ordered HARQ-ACK states as equal to the maximum size less the minimum size when spatial bundling is performed or one of the first CC and the second CC with the minimum size is configured for a single Transmission Block (TB) per DL sub-frame within the radio frame.","In another configuration, the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine the number of instances of the predetermined HARQ-ACK state by which to pad the first series of ordered HARQ-ACK states as equal to twice the maximum size less twice the minimum size where one of the first CC and the second CC with the minimum size is configured for two Transmission Blocks (TBs) per DL sub-frame within the radio frame and spatial bundling has not been performed. In another example, the predetermined HARQ-ACK state is Discontinuous Transmission (DTX).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["710","750","720","712","752","748","714","754","716","756","716","756","710","750"]},"The wireless device  can include a transceiver  and a processor . The wireless device (i.e., device) can be configured to support explicit mapping for Hybrid Automatic Retransmission re-Quest (HARQ) for Carrier Aggregation (CA). The processor can include a type module , a selection module , an index module , a read module , a comparison module , a map module , a decoding module , a message module , a counting module , and an association module .","The type module  can be configured to detect a type 2 set of DownLink (DL) sub-frames of a radio frame for a virtual HARQ-ACKnowledge (HARQ-ACK) bundling window. The HARQ-ACK bundling window can comprise a type 1 set of DL sub-frames transmitted from a first Component Carrier (CC) and the type 2 set of DL sub-frames transmitted from an additional CC, and the type 2 set can be bundled with a HARQ-ACK bundling window for the first CC. The selection module  can be configured to select a set of Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) resources from multiple sets of PUCCH resources configured by Radio Resource Control (RRC) signaling depending on the Transmit Power Control (TPC) field value in the Downlink Control Information (DCI) format of a corresponding Physical Downlink Control CHannel (PDCCH). Each PUCCH resource in the set can have a one-to-one relationship associated with a DL frame in the type 2 set. The index module  can be configured to index a PUCCH resource to a channel value used in a legacy mapping table for HARQ-ACK multiplexing, wherein the PUCCH resource includes HARQ-ACK feedback for the type 2 set of the DL sub-frames.","In another example, read module  can be configured to read a Downlink Assignment Index (DAI) value in a PDCCH transmission corresponding to the DL sub-frame in the one-to-one relationship. The comparison module  can be configured to determine a larger window size between a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Primary CC (PCC) with a PCC window size Mand a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Secondary CC (SCC) with a SCC window size M. Each of the first CC and the additional CC can be one of the PCC or the SCC to the exclusion of the other. The index module  can be further configured where the DAI value is equal to one of one and two, to index a PUCCH resource in the one-to-one relationship to one of: A channel value equal to the DAI value minus one, where the SCC window size Mis the larger window size; or a channel value equal to the DAI value plus one, where the PCC window size Mis the larger window size.","In another example, read module  can be configured to determine that a Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) DL sub-frame in the type 2 set carries a Physical Downlink Shared CHannel (PDSCH) transmission without a corresponding Physical Downlink Control CHannel (PDCCH) transmission. The comparison module  can be configured determine a larger window size between a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Primary CC (PCC) with a PCC window size Mand a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Secondary CC (SCC) with a SCC window size M. Each of the first CC and the additional CC being one of the PCC or the SCC to the exclusion of the other. The selection module  can be further configured to select a set of Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) resources from four sets of PUCCH resources with a PUCCH resource comprising a channel in a one-to-one relationship with the SPS DL sub-frame. The index module  can be further configured to index a PUCCH resources in the one-to-one relationship with the SPS DL sub-frame to a channel value for HARQ-ACK multiplexing according to the legacy mapping table for HARQ-ACK multiplexing when M\u2267M+2.","In another example, the map module  can be configured to select a mapped state from the legacy mapping table for HARQ-ACK multiplexing corresponding to HARQ-ACK states for DL sub-frames in the virtual window. The map module can be further configured to interpret a HARQ state for the SPS DL sub-frame as corresponding to a HARQ-ACK(0) position on the legacy mapping table for HARQ-ACK multiplexing. The index module can be further configured to index a PUCCH resource nrepresented by n=nwhen a Downlink Assignment Index (DAI) value equals one is detected in the PDCCH of the type 2 sub-frame i where (0\u2266i\u2266M\u22121).","In another configuration, the decoding module  can be configured to generate HARQ-ACK states from the DL sub-frames on the first CC and the additional CC. The map module  can be configured to: Select the legacy mapping table from HARQ-ACK multiplexing tables 10.1.3-2 to 10.1.3-7 specified in Technical Specification (TS) 36.213 of Release 10 of Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards e.g., Tables 9-14 illustrated in ) based on a size of the virtual bundling window; and select a first mapped state from the legacy mapping table corresponding to HARQ-ACK states for DL sub-frames in the virtual window for two CCs. The message module  can be configured to embed a constellation point corresponding to the first mapped state in a PUCCH format 1b message on a PUCCH resource indexed to a PUCCH resource channel value corresponding to the first mapped state.","In another example, the counting module  can be configured to assign a unique number M to a DL sub-frame in the type 2 set represented by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["M","p"]},{"mi":["M","s"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":",","mn":"2"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p ","s "],"b":["744","730"]},"In another configuration, the selection module selects a set of PUCCH resources with three PUCCH resources from four sets of PUCCH resources known to the UE, where each set of PUCCH resources in the four sets of PUCCH resources comprise three PUCCH resources when M\u2267M+2, where Mrepresents the bundling window size for a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Primary CC (PCC), and Mrepresents the bundling window size for a HARQ-ACK bundling window for a Secondary CC(SCC). Each of the first CC and the additional CC being one of the PCC or the SCC to the exclusion of the other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},"Various techniques, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, non-transitory computer readable storage medium, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware, firmware, program code, executable code, computer instructions, and\/or software. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing device may include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. The volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements may be a RAM, EPROM, flash drive, optical drive, magnetic hard drive, solid state drive, or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module, a counter module, a processing module, and\/or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) may be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language, and combined with hardware implementations.","It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules, in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example, a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays, off-the-shelf semiconductors such as logic chips, transistors, or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays, programmable array logic, programmable logic devices or the like.","Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may, for instance, comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions, which may, for instance, be organized as an object, procedure, or function. Nevertheless, the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together, but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which, when joined logically together, comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.","Indeed, a module of executable code may be a single instruction, or many instructions, and may even be distributed over several different code segments, among different programs, and across several memory devices. Similarly, operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules, and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set, or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices, and may exist, at least partially, merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active, including agents operable to perform desired functions.","Reference throughout this specification to \u201can example\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases \u201cin an example\u201d in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.","As used herein, a plurality of items, structural elements, compositional elements, and\/or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However, these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus, no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition, various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments, examples, and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another, but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.","Furthermore, the described features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description, numerous specific details are provided, such as examples of layouts, distances, network examples, etc., to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other methods, components, layouts, etc. In other instances, well-known structures, materials, or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form, usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty, and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly, it is not intended that the invention be limited, except as by the claims set forth below."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the detailed description which follows, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which together illustrate, by way of example, features of the disclosure; and, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 32"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
