---
title: Subaperture clutter filter with CFAR signal detection
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to the determination of whether a received signal comprising radar clutter further comprises a communication signal. The communication signal can comprise of a preamble, a data symbol, communication data, etc. A first portion of the radar clutter is analyzed to determine a radar signature of the first portion of the radar clutter. A second portion of the radar clutter can be extracted based on the radar signature of the first portion. Following extraction, any residual signal can be analyzed to retrieve preamble data, etc. The received signal can be based upon a linear frequency modulation (e.g., a chirp modulation) whereby the chirp frequency can be determined and the frequency of transmission of the communication signal can be based accordingly thereon. The duration and/or bandwidth of the communication signal can be a portion of the duration and/or the bandwidth of the radar clutter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429644&OS=09429644&RS=09429644
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09429644
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was developed under contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.","Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) is a radar technique whereby a radar system moves relative to a target region, e.g., a radar antenna is located on an aircraft flying over a target region of interest. In conjunction with transmission and reception of electromagnetic radiation utilized for radar signaling (e.g., radar waves), the antenna can also be utilized to transmit and receive electromagnetic radiation for communication between the aircraft and another system (e.g., a ground based transmitter). Simultaneous SAR imaging and radio-frequency (RF) communication involves collecting data with the airborne radar platform while a ground based transmitter is simultaneously communicating to the radar antenna in a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum which can overlap an operating range of the radar. Hence, signaling received at the radar antenna can comprise of a combination of radar clutter and a communication signal. The concepts presented supra are illustrated in , where an aircraft , equipped with a radar antenna system  is flying over a target terrain , where the target terrain can also include man-made structures\/buildings such as a transmission structure . Radar waves  are being transmitted from antenna system , and reflected radar waves  (e.g., reflected off of terrain , structure , etc.) are reflected back to antenna system . As well as antenna system  receiving reflected radar signals , antenna system  can also simultaneously receive communication signal  transmitted from transmission structure . However, the radar clutter return (e.g., radar waves ) can appear as noise or interference on the communication channel (e.g., communication signal ) and can thus effect a reduction in the performance of the communication channel. It is to be appreciated that transmission structure  can be any suitable system, such as the previously mentioned transmission tower, as well as a vehicle based system, a portable system (e.g., carried by military personnel), etc.","The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.","Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determining an existence of a communication signal associated with a received signal further comprising radar clutter. In an exemplary embodiment, a signal detection system can be configured to receive a signal comprising a combination of a communication signal and radar clutter. In an embodiment, the communication signal can have a frequency configured in accordance with a frequency of a radar transmission signal originating the radar clutter.","Another exemplary embodiment is presented which comprises a method for determination of a radar signature and based thereon, determining whether a communication signal exists. The method comprising extracting a communication signal from a signal being received, wherein the received signal further comprises radar clutter. In an embodiment, the communication signal can be band-limited according to at least one parameter associated with the radar clutter.","A further exemplary embodiment for determination of the existence of a communication signal in a signal further comprising radar clutter can comprise a memory that includes instructions that, when executed by a processor of the radar system, cause the processor to perform acts comprising receiving a signal comprising radar clutter and a communication signal. In a further embodiment, the acts include generating a first subaperture comprising a first portion of the radar clutter, and further, generating a second subaperture comprising the communication signal and a second portion of the radar clutter, wherein the first subaperture has a same area as the second subaperture. In a further embodiment, the acts can include determining a signature of the first portion of the radar clutter, and in a further embodiment, filtering the second subaperture with the first portion signature to facilitate removal of the second portion of the radar clutter from the second aperture facilitating identifying an existence of the communication signal in the second aperture.","The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and\/or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and\/or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and\/or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","Various technologies pertaining to determination of a communication signal being included in signaling comprising radar clutter are now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident, however, that such aspect(s) may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.","The term \u201cor\u201d is intended herein to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor.\u201d That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from the context, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied by any of the following instances: X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally, as used herein, the term \u201cexemplary\u201d is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something, and is not intended to indicate a preference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","200","110","120","110","120","110","110","120","110","120","120","110"]},"It is to be appreciated that while  illustrates communication signal  to be located timewise in the second half of the duration of radar signal , the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and the communication signal  can be located at any point relative to the temporal existence of radar signal . For example, turning briefly to , communication signal  can be located in the central portion of radar signal . As shown in , regions E and G comprise of radar clutter  only, while central region F comprises of both communication signaling  and radar clutter .","It is to be further appreciated that while  illustrates communication signal  having a duration of half of that of the duration of the radar signal  (e.g., 50 \u03bcs versus 100 \u03bcs), the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and the communication signal  can be of any duration relative to the duration of the radar signal  (e.g., 20 \u03bcs versus 100 \u03bcs, 50 \u03bcs versus 80 \u03bcs, 10 \u03bcs versus 90 \u03bcs, etc.). Furthermore, it is to be appreciated that while  illustrates radar signal  having a duration of 100 \u03bcs and communication signal  having a duration of 50 \u03bcs, the respective duration of each of the radar signal  and the communication signal  can be of any length. In an embodiment, the duration of the communication signal  can be less than the duration of the radar signal . In another embodiment, the duration of the radar signal  can be of a duration greater than the duration of the communication signal  duration to facilitate determination of a portion of signaling only comprising radar signal (e.g., only radar signal clutter) from which a comparison of the radar signal (e.g., regions A and B) with the signaling portion comprising radar signal and communication signaling (e.g., region C).","Turning to , the respective bandwidths of the radar signal and the communication signal are presented. In an embodiment, the respective signal bandwidths of radar signal  and communication signal  can be of any required magnitude. For example, as shown in , the bandwidth of radar signal  can be 100 megahertz (MHz) while the bandwidth of the communication signal  can be of a lesser magnitude, e.g., 50 MHz. As illustrated in , radar signal  can be operating as a chirp with radar signal  located in a stream of radar chirps, i.e., between a previous radar chirp  and a subsequent radar chirp .","Hence, as illustrated in , in conjunction with reference to , the various embodiments presented herein relate to identifying signaling which comprises a radar signal only, and based on such identification, extracting (aka filtering) the radar signal from signaling comprising both radar signal and communication signal to facilitate identification of the existence of a communication signal and further, to determine the data included in the communication signal. Such data included in a communication signal can be any of an initial indicator (e.g., a header data packet or a preamble data packet) indicating that communication data is to follow in one or more subsequent communication signals, an end-of-transmission signal, or the data can be any information conveyed between a transmitter (e.g., ground station ) and an antenna (e.g., antenna ). A communication signal to be transmitted from a communication apparatus to a radar apparatus can comprise of a preamble followed by data symbols.","As further explained herein, filtering the radar clutter from a communications channel can facilitate provision of constant false alarm rate (CFAR) for detection of a preamble communication, and can further discriminate between a communication signal and normal radar clutter return. As conveyed in , in an embodiment, a band-limited communication transmitter can be utilized, where the band-limited communication transmitter can be configured to enable generation of multiple subaperture data sets at the radar. In an embodiment, by utilizing a transmitter that is RF band limited, the data support of a communications signal within a phase history domain is also limited in the range direction which enables generation of a plurality of subapertures, where each subaperture can have a unique signal response. Further, the various embodiments presented herein can be implemented in any suitable radar signaling system, where such signaling system can include a single antenna system in conjunction with low pulse repetition intervals as utilized in SAR imaging.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIGS. 4-6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"410"},"At , as described further herein, the radar signal can be identified (e.g., the radar signature) in the first portion of the radar signal\/communication signal transmission received as an input at the antenna. Once the radar signal signature is known, the signature can act as a foundation against which existence of a communication signal can be determined.","At , based on determining the radar signal signature in the first portion, an equivalent signature (e.g., noise, clutter, etc.) can be filtered from the second portion. Any signaling (e.g., signal residue) remaining after the first radar signature has been filtered from the second portion can be considered to be the communication signal. In an embodiment, the magnitude of the communication signal bandwidth can be of a magnitude to facilitate determination of the existence of the communication signal. For example, even though the first radar signature has been determined with regard to noise, clutter, etc., the magnitude of the communication signal bandwidth is of a sufficient magnitude to facilitate detection relative to the first radar signature. For example, in an embodiment, the first radar signature is of a magnitude of 100 MHz, while the communication signal has a magnitude of 50 MHz.","At , the communication signal can be processed. In an embodiment, the communication signal can be a preamble signal indicating that a communication is to follow. In another embodiment, the communication signal can comprise of all, or a portion, of a communication being transmitted to an antenna system, e.g., the communication signal comprises all, or a portion, of the data symbols to be transmitted to an antenna system. The acts presented in  are further expanded upon with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"510"},"At , the communication apparatus can further determine the bandwidth of the radar signal.","At , based upon at least one of the frequency of the radar signal, the bandwidth of the radar signal, or other parameter associated with the radar signal, the properties of the communication signal to be communicated from the communication apparatus to the antenna system can be configured. For example, where the bandwidth of the radar signal is determined to be 100 MHz, where a radar signal to communication signal bandwidth ratio is to be configured at 2:1, then the communication signal can be configured with a bandwidth of 50 MHz. Further, where the radar signal is identified to have a duration of X \u03bcs and a transmit frequency of Y then the communication signal can be configured to have a duration of N \u03bcs and transmission of the communication signal initiates relative to transmission of the radar signal (e.g., at half of the duration X for the communication signal to be combined with the radar signal for the second half of the existence of the radar signal). Hence, the communication signal can be configured to have a frequency and\/or a duration to facilitate location of the communication signal in a portion of a radar signal reflected back to the antenna system.","At , the communication signal can be transmitted from the communication apparatus in accordance with the determined parameters of the reflected radar signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIGS. 7-9","FIG. 6"],"b":"600"},"An overview of model  is briefly presented and further expanded upon in the sub-sections. At , initially phase history data (e.g., polar data comprising radar clutter and a communication signal) can be resampled to lie on a rectangular grid. At , the phase history data is subsequently filtered (e.g., in the range dimension) to create two subapertures, a first subaperture and a second subaperture. The first subaperture can include only radar clutter return (aka clutter-only data) while the second subaperture can include radar clutter return and a communications signal (aka clutter-and-signal data). At , a Fourier transform can be subsequently applied to the first subaperture and the second subaperture in the range dimension, generating range compressed data. A first range compressed data set (, element R) contains clutter data only, and a second range compressed data set (, element S) contains clutter-and-signal data. At , spectral estimation in the cross-range dimension can be further applied to the clutter-only range compressed data, element R. Spectral estimation in the cross-range dimension facilitates clutter spectral estimation for the corresponding clutter-and-signal range compressed data, element S. At respective acts  and , a filter (e.g., a whitening filter), in the cross-range dimension, can then be applied to both range compressed data sets, elements R and S. At respective acts  and , a Fourier transform can be applied in the cross-range dimension to both data sets (elements R and S) to facilitate creating two respective SAR images, a first SAR image for the radar clutter data (element R) and a second SAR image for the radar clutter-and-signal data (element S). At  and , the first SAR image and the second SAR image can be subsequently power detected. At , the first SAR image, the clutter-only power detected SAR image, can then be averaged in the cross-range dimension. At , a communications signal (e.g., a preamble signal, data symbols) can be detected in the clutter-and-signal image by setting a CFAR threshold and further, by comparing pixel to pixel the power detected clutter-and-signal SAR image to the power averaged clutter-only SAR image. At , detection of the communications signal can be indicated, e.g., by a notification, by forwarding of data comprising the communication signal, determining presence of a preamble, analysis of data symbols comprising the communication signal, etc.","Signal Model after Deramp Processing","In an embodiment, a signal received at an antenna (e.g., antenna ) can comprise of a radar return signal (e.g., radar waves or clutter ) from a point target and further a communication signal (e.g., signal ) simultaneously received on the communications channel. In a further embodiment, the radar signal can be linear frequency modulated and the communications signal can be designed to match the RF center frequency and the chirp rate of the transmitted radar signal. In another embodiment, the communications transmitter can be located at the same position as the point target. The geometry for a signal model according to the various embodiments presented herein, is illustrated in . At the radar (e.g., antenna ), the received signal can be deramped and sampled.","The return signal before and after deramp processing is illustrated in .  illustrates a return signal comprising both radar clutter  and a communication signal . In an embodiment, the communications signal  can have an RF bandwidth that is less than the radar clutter return . The reference signal is a replica of the radar transmit signal that is delayed in time to match the time delay of a radar return from a known and fixed geographical reference point.","The received signal is mixed with the complex conjugate of the reference function to perform the deramp processing as shown in . As illustrated, in an embodiment, the radar clutter return  can have a longer time (also called spatial frequency) extent then the communications signal . The sampled deramped received signal is given as:\n\n()=()+()\u2003\u2003Eqn. 1\n\nwhere i is the fast time analog\/digital (A\/D) sample index, n is the radar pulses index, xis the deramped signal return of the transmitted radar pulse, and xis the deramped received communications signal.\n","Further the reference signal  is,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["x","ref"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["iT","ad"]},"mo":["-","+"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}},"mi":"c"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["iT","ad"]},"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}},"mi":"c"}}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"c","sup":"th ","figref":"FIG. 7"},"After mixing the received RF signal with Eqn. 2, the received radar signal at the A\/D output is expressed as:\n\n()=exp(())\u2003\u2003Eqn. 3\n\nwhere\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","t"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b3","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["R","sc"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}]}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":[{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":["<","<"],"mi":"i"}],"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["st ","ad ","sc ","sc","s","c","s"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["R","n","R","n","R","n"],"sup":"th ","figref":"FIG. 7"},"It is to be noted that the spatial-frequency of the received radar signal is given as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b3","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The RF bandwidth of the radar pulse, in Hz, is:\n\n(\u22121)\u2003\u2003Eqn. 7\n\nwhere Nis the total number of A\/D samples.\n","The signal return of the communications signal transmitted from the same locations is:\n\n()=exp(())\u2003\u2003Eqn. 8\n\nwhere Ais the signal amplitude and \u03b8is the phase term of the received communications signal, respectively.\n","The bandwidth of the received signal can be selected such that the data support for the receive signal, in spatial frequency, can be divided into two separate sets or subapertures in the range dimension. One such subaperture contains signal return from only the point target (i.e., radar clutter) the other subaperture contains signal return from both the radar clutter return and the communications signal.","In an embodiment, the RF bandwidth of the communication signal  can be configured to be \u00bd the radar pulse bandwidth of the radar clutter , and thus, the communication signal  is designed such that the received phase term, \u03b8, is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"0"},"mo":["<","<"],"mi":"i","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b3","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]}}}},"msub":{"mi":["R","sc"]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}},"mo":["<","<"],"mi":"i","msub":{"mi":["N","s"]}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"10"}}]}]}}}},"The starting spatial-frequency of the received communication signal is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st_c"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["BW","c"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"12"}}]}}}}},"Polar to Rectangular Resampling","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , element . An initial step in processing the received data is to perform polar to rectangular resampling. The received signal is resampled such that the phase history, in the spatial-frequency domain, is sampled on a rectangular grid. Rcan be approximated as:\n\n\u2248sin \u03b1()\u2212cos \u03b1(),\u2003\u2003Eqn. 13\n\nwhere \u03b1(n) is the angle between the reference pointing vector at the center of the aperture and the pointing vector at the npulse (as illustrated in ). The coordinates {x, y} are the x, y coordinates from the reference point to the target point (as illustrated in ).\n","In the range or fast time dimension, a resampling operation can be performed such that the sample interval \u03b3Ti is replaced with the sample interval",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u03b3","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]}},{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}}]},"mo":"."}}}},"In the slow-time or cross-range dimension, for each row in fast time, i, a resampling operation can be performed such that the sample interval",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u03b3","i","sin"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}}}]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["x","t","y","s","x","s"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["i,n","K","i","y","+K","n","x"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"i"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["f","st"]}},{"mi":["\u03b4","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","y"]}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":["N","Ky"]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"i"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"15"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u0394"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b4","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","x"]}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":["K","x"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"n"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","y"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","\u03b3"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]}},"mi":"c"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"17"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]}},{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":["K","y"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"18"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]}},"mi":"c"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]}}}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]}}}}}]}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mn":"19"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","x"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]}},{"msub":{"mi":["N","kx"]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"20"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["kx ","ky "]},"The phase response of the communications signal after resampling can be:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"i"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["x","s"]},"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"for","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["K","i"]}},"mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"i","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":["K","y"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":["K","x"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}}]}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"21"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The range bandwidth, in spatial frequency, for the communications signal  (Eqn 21) can be approximated as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"22"}}]}}}}},"The lower limit on the index in Eqn 21 can be:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"\/","mi":"\u03b4"},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","y"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"23"}}]}}}}},"Again, it is to be noted that the bandwidth of the communication signal  can be selected such that the data support for the receive signal can be divided into two separate sets or subapertures in the range dimension. A first subaperture  can contain a signal return from only the point target (e.g., returned radar signal ). A second subaperture  can contain a signal return from both the radar clutter return  and the communication signal .","Range Filtering","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , element . Subsequently, the phase data can be filtered in range by applying a simple brick wall filter in the Kdomain. In an embodiment, the filtering can be accomplished by extracting the two separate subapertures  and  from the resampled phase history data.","Two criteria are required when filtering or extracting the subapertures  and . Firstly, as mentioned previously, a first subaperture  contains signal return from only the clutter return while the second subaperture  contains signal return from both the clutter return and the communications signal. Secondly, in an embodiment, the data support for the clutter return should be the same length in both dimensions for both the first subaperture  and the second subaperture .  illustrates two regions that can be extracted as subapertures. The first region  contains mainly clutter return and has a spatial frequency, in the polar grid, that extends from",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"element","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1040"}}]}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"element","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1050"}}]}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"1020"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["T","ad"]},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["N","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"element","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1050"}}]}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"mi":"c"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","st"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":["T","ad"]},{"mi":["N","s"]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"element","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1060"}},"mo":"."}]}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["1030","1030"]},"For the clutter-only data , the signal phase can be filtered such that:\n\n\u03b8()=\u03b8() for 0\u2266and 0\u2266\u22121\u2003\u2003Eqn. 24\n\nand for the clutter-and-signal data  the resulting signal phase is:\n\n\u03b8()=\u03b8() for 0\u2266and \u03b8\u2266\u22121\u2003\u2003Eqn. 25\n","The signal return for the first subaperture  is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"for","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"0"},{"msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}],"mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"i"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"(","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"i"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}],"mo":"+"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["N","Kx"]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}]}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"26"}}]}}}}},"The signal return for the second subaperture  is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["j","t"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]}},"mo":",","mi":"n"}}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["A","c"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"(","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]}},"mo":",","mi":"n"}}}}}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]}}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"+"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","c"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"(","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["N","Kl"]}}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}],"mo":"+"}}}}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"27"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["Kl ","Kx"]},"The signal, x, contains only energy from the clutter data  while the signal, x, contains energy from both the clutter signal  and the communication signal .","Range Compression","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , element . For each subaperture  and , a Fourier transform over the Kdimension can be applied to obtain range compression data per the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"FT","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}}}]}],"mo":"\u2248"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"28"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"FT","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["i","n"],"mo":","}}}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["A","c"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0398","C"]}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}}}]},{"msub":{"mi":["A","t"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["y","s"]}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"msub":{"mi":["x","s"]}}}}]}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2248"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"29"}}]}}}}},"The spatial sampling in the range dimension is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03b4","y"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","y"]},{"mi":["N","Ky"]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"30"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","y"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["k","y"]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"31"}}]}}}}},"The clutter signal energy  is now compressed and contained in the row indexed by y=y. In an embodiment, owing to the range and cross-range dimension of the first subaperture  and the second subaperture  being selected to be equal, the clutter signal for both range compressed data sets can be located in the same row and have the same spatial frequency in the cross-range dimension. The communications signal within Xis also in the row indexed by y=yand has the same spatial frequency as the clutter return in the cross-range dimension. Because the range compressed data, X, contains only clutter return it can be used to estimate the clutter spectrum in the range compressed data, X, in the cross-range dimension. Using the clutter spectral estimate from X, a whitening filter in the cross-range dimension can be implemented, to filter the clutter energy. Removal of the clutter energy can leave residual signaling, whereby the residual signaling can be the communication signal , e.g., a preamble signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIGS. 11-13","FIG. 11","FIG. 12","FIG. 13"],"b":["110","253","282","120","211","120","110","1010","110","52","58","1020","110","52","58","120","43","120","110","110","120","110","120","1010","1020"]},"Spectral Estimation","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , element . To perform spectral estimation, for each row in X(y, n) a linear predictive coding (LPC) analysis can be applied to determine the set of LPC filter parameters as follows:\n\n_coef(row,:)=((row,:),)\u2003\u2003Eqn. 32\n\nwhere MATLAB notation indicates that the MATLAB lpc algorithm is applied to each row of X.\n","Whitening Filter","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , elements  and . The resulting filter coefficients, lpc_coef(row,n), can be used with a finite impulse response filter to facilitate estimation and removal of the clutter return from the range compressed data Xas follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":["_","fil"],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","n"],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"pc"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"pc_coef","mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","k"],"mo":","}},{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"row","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":["n","k"],"mo":"-"}}}}]}}],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"33"}}]}}}}},"Further, a whitening filter can be applied to the clutter-only range compressed data . This allows the use of the clutter-only data for constant false alarm processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":["_","fil"],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","n"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","n"],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"pc"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"pc_coef","mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["row","k"],"mo":","}},{"msub":{"mi":"X","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"row","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":["n","k"],"mo":"-"}}}}]}}],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"34"}}]}}}}},"Cross-Range Compression","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , elements  and . For each data set, a Fourier transform operation can be performed over the cross-range dimension as follows:\n\n()=()}\u2003\u2003Eqn. 35\n\n()=()}\u2003\u2003Eqn. 36\n","Application of the Fourier transform operation can result in a clutter image, Y(y, x) that can comprise of whitened clutter noise and further, an image, Y(y, x) that can comprise of whitened clutter noise in combination with a compressed communications signal (e.g., preamble, etc., comprising communication signal ). In an ideal situation Y(y, x) appears as a point response located at {x, y}.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["110","120","43","110","208","120","245"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 16","FIG. 15"],"b":["43","1510","110","120","43","1510","1510","1610","1610","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["120","43","245"]},"Owing to application of the whitening filter to the clutter only data, X, the whitened clutter power in Y(y, x) and Y(y, x) can be uncorrelated but have equal power. Hence, the resulting data set Y(y, x) can be utilized to estimate clutter power in Y(y, x) and implement a pixel-by-pixel CFAR detector.","Clutter Power Estimation","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , elements ,  and . To implement the CFAR detector the clutter power in Y(y, x) can be averaged, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mover":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"Y","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","x"],"mo":","}}}},"mn":"2"},"mi":"_"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"msub":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"Y","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":["x","k"],"mo":"+"}}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqn","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"37"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"p "},"Preamble Detection","This subsection can be read in conjunction with , elements  and . The communication signal (e.g., a preamble) can be detected by performing a pixel-by-pixel compression of the two data sets as follows:\n\n|()|\u2212>threshold\u2003\u2003Eqn. 38\n\nThe threshold in Eqn. 38 can be chosen to provide the desired false alarm rate for preamble detection.\n","Finally, because the clutter signal has been whitened in Y(y, x), the signal detection implemented in Eqn. 38 can discriminate uniquely between the communication signal  and the radar clutter  of a normal radar image (i.e., an image where the clutter filter has not been applied).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIGS. 6-15"],"b":["1800","1802","1810","1802","110","120","1810","1820","120","110"]},"A resampling component  can be utilized to transform a received signal  from polar form to rectangular form (e.g., phase history data), per  of .","A range filter component  can be utilized to filter the transformed received signal  to facilitate generation of a first subaperture and a second subaperture, per  of . As previously mentioned, the first subaperture can comprise of only radar clutter (e.g., only comprises a portion of radar clutter \u2014, dataset R) and the second subaperture can comprise of radar clutter and a communication signal (e.g., comprises a portion of radar clutter  and communication signal \u2014, dataset S). In an embodiment, filtering can be performed in the range dimension.","A range compression component  can be utilized to apply a Fourier transform to dataset R and further to dataset S to generate range compressed data, per  of . In an embodiment, the Fourier transform can be applied in the range dimension.","A spectral estimation component  can be utilized to determine the degree and nature of the radar clutter  in dataset R, per  of . Based upon the determination, the degree and nature of the portion of radar clutter  in dataset S can be estimated. In an embodiment, the spectral estimation determination can be performed in the cross-range dimension.","A filter component  can be applied to the dataset R signaling and the dataset S signaling, per  and  of . In an embodiment, filtering can be a whitening filter. In another embodiment, the filtering can be applied in the cross-range dimension.","A cross-range compression component  can be applied to the dataset R and the dataset S, where the data can be compressed in the cross-range, per  and  of . As part of the cross-range compression a Fourier transform can be applied to both the dataset R and the dataset S to facilitate creation of two respective SAR images, a first SAR image for the R dataset and a second SAR image for the S dataset.","A power detection component  can be utilized to detect respective powers comprising the first SAR image and the second SAR image per  and  of .","A cross-range averaging component  can be utilized to facilitate averaging of the clutter-only power in the first SAR image per  of . In an embodiment, averaging can be in the cross-range dimension.","A pixel threshold component  can be utilized, to compare pixel to pixel between the power-averaged clutter-only first SAR image and the power detected clutter-and-signal second SAR image, per  of . Based upon the comparison, existence of a communication signal  (e.g., residual data or signal residue in the second SAR versus the first SAR) in the second SAR image can be determined. Accordingly, the communication signal  can be extracted from the radar clutter  comprising the second SAR image. Based on the extraction, the communication signal , or information pertaining thereto can be identified as communication signal  per  of . As previously mentioned, communication signal  can comprise of a preamble signal, at least one data symbol, etc.","As illustrated in , the various components - can be operated in accordance with operation of a processor  and a data store . In an embodiment, processor  can facilitate execution of one or more components -. Further, data store  can store one or more received signals , one or more extracted communication signals , radar clutter information , or any other pertinent information\/data to be stored to facilitate operation of one or more embodiments as presented herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1900","120","2130","1910","1920","2130","2130","1995","2130","1920","1930","2130","1910","2130","1920","1995","2130","1930","2130","2130"]},"Based on the analysis generated by the radar signal analyzer component , a communication signal generator component  can be configured to receive a communication signal  which is to be transmitted (e.g., via antenna ) and further configure the communication signal in accord with the radar signal . For example, based upon the frequency of the radar signal  the communication signal  can be configured to be transmitted such that the communication signal  is being transmitted at the same time as reflection of the radar signal . Hence, as shown in , the communication signal  is transmitted in conjunction with a clutter signal (e.g., clutter signal ).","As illustrated in , components  and  can be operated in accordance with operation of a processor  and a data store . In an embodiment, processor  can facilitate execution of either or both components  and . Further, data store  can store information relating to one or more received radar signals , one or more communication signals , or any other pertinent information\/data to be stored to facilitate operation of one or more embodiments as presented herein.","Referring now to , a high-level illustration of an exemplary computing device  that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance, the computing device  may be used in a system to determine existence of a communication signal in a received signal, wherein the received signal further comprises radar clutter signaling. The computing device  includes at least one processor  that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be, for instance, instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor  may access the memory  by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions, the memory  may also store operating parameters, required operating parameters, and so forth.","The computing device  additionally includes a data store  that is accessible by the processor  by way of the system bus . The data store  may include executable instructions, operating parameters, required operating parameters, etc. The computing device  also includes an input interface  that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance, the input interface  may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device, from a user, etc. The computing device  also includes an output interface  that interfaces the computing device  with one or more external devices. For example, the computing device  may display text, images, etc., by way of the output interface .","Additionally, while illustrated as a single system, it is to be understood that the computing device  may be a distributed system. Thus, for instance, several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .","As used herein, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are intended to encompass computer-readable data storage that is configured with computer-executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer-executable instructions may include a routine, a function, or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.","Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware, software, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes computer-readable storage media. A computer-readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable storage media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc, as used herein, include compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, and Blu-ray disc (BD), where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further, a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer-readable storage media. Computer-readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection, for instance, can be a communication medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects, but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly, the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the details description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 21"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
