---
title: Converting structured data into database entries
abstract: Systems and methods for converting structured data into database entries include receiving data values and metadata elements that form a data structure for the data values. The data values are converted into entries in database tables that are related according to the data structure formed by the metadata elements. The database table entries may be used to generate a webpage configured to report a metric of the data values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195689&OS=09195689&RS=09195689
owner: BUSINESS OBJECTS SOFTWARE, LTD.
number: 09195689
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130219
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Many companies today rely on business intelligence systems to store and analyze data regarding their business processes. Such a business intelligence system may receive data regarding the business from any number of sources. For example, a business intelligence system may receive data regarding the company's employees from a payroll or human resources (HR) application. In another example, a business intelligence system may receive data regarding products manufactured and sold by the company from an enterprise resource planning (ERP) application. In a further example, a business intelligence system may receive data regarding a competitor's products, such as pricing information.","In addition to receiving and storing data regarding a company's operations, a business intelligence system may also include various utilities that use the data for purposes of driving business decisions, benchmarking, planning, and other functions. To this end, report generation and data analytics play important roles in allowing decision makers to quickly review and assess the various aspects of the business. For example, a sales report may allow a sales manager to determine which products are selling well, which members of the sales team are performing poorly, or how sales revenues compare to other time periods. However, entry of the sales-related information driving the report may require a sales team member to log into the underlying system to enter the data. Similarly, the layout of the sales report may be created in a static manner by a programmer to link the report to its underlying data (e.g., the sales manager has no control over how the report is presented). It is challenging and difficult to devise mechanisms that allow for the dynamic entry of data to a business intelligence system and the dynamic analysis of the dynamically entered data.","Implementations of the systems and methods for converting structured data into database entries are described herein. One implementation is a computerized method of converting structured data into entries in a database. The method includes providing a webpage configured to receive data values and a metadata structure for the data values as input. The webpage is configured to convert the entered data values and metadata structure into Extensible Markup Language (XML) format. The method also includes receiving the data values in XML format and converting the data values in XML format into entries in database tables of a database. The database tables are related according to the metadata structure for the data values. The method further includes retrieving the data values from the database tables using the metadata structure. The method additionally includes providing a webpage configured to report a metric of the data values.","Another implementation is a computerized method of converting structured data into entries in a database. The structured data includes metadata elements, one or more attributes associated with an element, and data values for the one or more attributes. The metadata elements in the structured data are also related according to a hierarchy. The method includes receiving the structured data at a processing circuit and parsing the structured data to identify the metadata elements in the structured data. The method further includes for each identified metadata element, creating a table entry in a metadata table. The metadata table is configured to relate table entries in the metadata table according to the hierarchy of the structured data. The method also includes for each identified metadata element, creating an element table in the database referencing the metadata table. The element table includes any attributes and data values associated with the identified metadata element. The method additionally includes using the metadata table and element tables to generate a webpage configured to report a metric of the data values in the element tables.","A further implementation is a system for converting structured data into entries in a database. The system includes a processing circuit configured to receive the structured data. The structured data includes metadata elements, one or more attributes associated with an element, and data values for the one or more attributes, with the metadata elements in the structured data being related according to a hierarchy. The processing circuit is configured to parse the structured data to identify the metadata elements in the structured data. The processing circuit is also configured to create, for each identified metadata element, a table entry in a metadata table, the metadata table being configured to relate table entries in the metadata table according to the hierarchy of the structured data. The processing circuit is further configured to create, for each identified metadata element, an element table in the database referencing the metadata table, the element table comprising any attributes and data values associated with the identified metadata element. The processing circuit is also configured to use the metadata table and element tables to generate a webpage configured to report a metric of the data values in the element tables.","These implementations are mentioned not to limit or define the scope of this disclosure, but to provide examples of implementations to aid in understanding thereof.","Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.","According to some aspects of the present disclosure, a business intelligence system may be configured to convert structured data into database entries for use by the system's reporting and analytics utilities. In general, structured data refers to any set of data values that includes metadata regarding the relationships between the data values. For example, data values may be hierarchically related and the hierarchy defined using metadata (e.g., \u201cSan Francisco\u201d is a child element of \u201cCalifornia\u201d according to the metadata hierarchy State>City). In some embodiments, the structured data may be formatted for use by a web browser. Exemplary formats may include, but are not limited to, the Extensible Markup Language (XML) format, the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format, and any other format configured to allow the communication of structured data over a network. Web services of the business intelligence system may also be configured use structured data to allow users to interact with the database entries, in various embodiments. Thus, a remote user of the business intelligence system's reporting and data analysis web services may be able to create, analyze, and view the data stored in the database.","Referring to , a block diagram of a computer system  is shown, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. System  includes one or more client devices - (e.g., a first device, a second device, etc., through an nth device) configured to access business data available from one or more data sources - (e.g., a first through nth data source). As shown, system  may also include one or more access services - (e.g., a first through nth service) configured to allow clients - to access data sources - or perform other functions, such as analyzing data from data sources -, providing reporting utilities, providing collaboration utilities, and other business intelligence-related functions. Computer system  may also include a data aggregation service  that aggregates data from data sources - and passes data between access services - and data sources -.","Client devices - are computing devices that may allow users to add, modify, analyze, or delete data stored in data sources -. Exemplary computing devices include, but are not limited, desktop computers, laptop computers, tablet computers, mobile devices, and smart televisions. Client devices - may each include one or more user interface devices. A user interface device may be any electronic device that conveys data to a user by generating sensory information (e.g., a visualization on a display, one or more sounds, etc.) and\/or converts received sensory information from a user into electronic signals (e.g., a keyboard, a mouse, a pointing device, a touch screen display, a microphone, etc.). The one or more user interface devices may be internal to the housings of client devices - (e.g., a built-in display, microphone, etc.) or external to the housing of client devices - (e.g., a monitor connected to client device , a speaker connected to client device , etc.), according to various implementations. For example, client device  may include an electronic display, which displays webpages and other data received from access services -.","Access services - may be software applications stored and executed by one or more servers in communication with client devices -. For example, access service  may be executed by a first server and access service  may be executed by a second server. In another example, access services - may be executed by the same server. According to various embodiments, client devices - may execute local applications to make use of access services -. For example, access service  may provide a webpage-based interface to a web browser on client device , to allow the user of client  to interact with access service . In another example, client device  may execute a stand-alone application to interact with access service  (e.g., an application specifically configured to utilize access service ). For example, the stand-alone application may include the logic for the visual layout of interface screens displayed by client device  and access service  may provide data values to the stand-alone application for presentation on the screens. In a further example, client  may execute a thin client application that receives data from access service .","Access services - may communicate with client devices - via a data communications network. The network may include the Internet and\/or other types of data networks, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a cellular network, satellite network, or other types of data communications networks. The network may also include any number of intermediary computing devices (e.g., computers, servers, routers, network switches, etc.) that are configured to receive and\/or transmit data. The network may further include any number of hardwired and\/or wireless connections. For example, client device  may interface with the network via a wireless connection (e.g., via WiFi, cellular, radio, etc.) or via a hardwired connection (e.g., via a fiber optic cable, a CAT5 cable, etc.). In various embodiments, client devices - and access services - may be located within the same area (e.g., the same building or campus) or may be separated geographically (e.g., access services - and client devices - may be located in different locations throughout the world).","Client devices - may each include one or more user interface devices. A user interface device may be any electronic device that conveys data to a user by generating sensory information (e.g., a visualization on a display, one or more sounds, etc.) and\/or converts received sensory information from a user into electronic signals (e.g., a keyboard, a mouse, a pointing device, a touch screen display, a microphone, etc.). The one or more user interface devices may be internal to the housings of client devices - (e.g., a built-in display, microphone, etc.) or external to the housing of client devices - (e.g., a monitor connected to client device , a speaker connected to client device , etc.), according to various implementations. For example, client device  may include an electronic display, which displays webpages and other data received from access services -.","Data sources - may include any number of files, applications, or databases in which business data may be stored. Exemplary data sources include, but are not limited to, spreadsheets, XML files, databases, database cubes, and business applications (e.g., an ERP application, a customer relationship management application, etc.). In various embodiments, data sources - are relational databases configured to store business data in relational tables. Data sources - may be stored on the same computing devices that execute access services - or on other networked devices, in various embodiments. For example, servers in a data center may store data sources - and execute access services -. In another example, access service  may provide a search query to a remote data source  via the Internet.","Computer system  also includes a data aggregation service  that acts as an intermediary between access services - and data sources -. In some embodiments, data aggregation service  is configured to generate database commands for data sources - in response to commands received via access services -. For example, access service  may be a reporting service through which a sales report may be provided to client device . In response to the report being opened, data aggregation service  may generate one or more database commands to retrieve the corresponding report data from data sources -. In one embodiment, database commands are issued by data aggregation service  using the using the Structured Query Language (SQL). In other words, data aggregation service  may provide a data context (e.g., a gateway to reach a particular data source) to an application context (e.g., the web pages, frames, visual components, etc.) provided by one of access services - to client .","According to various embodiments, data aggregation service  is configured to convert structured data received from client devices - via access services - into database entries in data sources -. The structured data may include data values and metadata regarding relationships between the data values. For example, the metadata may define any number of hierarchies, trees, or other data structures that relate the various data points (e.g., a data value corresponding to a particular city may be hierarchically related to a data value corresponding to a particular state). Exemplary formats for the structured data include, but are not limited to, XML, JSON, or any other format that supports the communication of structured data. In response to receiving the structured data from client devices - via access services -, data aggregation service  may analyze the structure of the received data, generate corresponding commands to reproduce the structure in data sources - (e.g., by issuing SQL or other database commands), and store the data values from the received data in data sources -. For example, data aggregation service  may receive a set of hierarchically-related data from client  via access service  and create a set of hierarchically-related tables in data source  to store the data values in the received data. Data aggregation service  may also be configured to retrieve the data entered into data sources - in response to a request from one of access services -. For example, access service  may be a reporting or analysis service via which the user of client device  is able to view or analyze the structured data stored in data source .","Access services - may be configured to allow users of client devices - to add or modify data stored in data sources - and to review and analyze the stored data (e.g., via a webpage report). For example, a first user of client device  may enter structured data into data source  via data aggregation service , a second user of client device  may create a report via access service  based on the stored data, and a third user of client device  may open the report via access service  to view its contents. Since data aggregation service  allows for the conversion between structured data (e.g., XML formatted data, JSON formatted data, etc.) and data stored in a database, users of client devices - may be able to enter data into data sources - through a web browser, in some embodiments. Thus, a user of the reporting and data analysis functions of access services - may also be able to modify the data underlying a report in data sources - via the same service.","Referring now to , an illustration is shown of a webpage  containing a sales report, according to an exemplary embodiment. According to various embodiments, webpage  may be generated and provided to a client device by an access service of a business intelligence system. For example, webpage  may be generated by access service  shown in  and provided to client device  for display on an electronic display. Underlying webpage  may also be data stored within a database, such as the sales-related data used in the displayed sales report on webpage . The access service providing webpage  may provide data in XML, JSON, or another web-centric format for communicating structured data to the client device. In addition, the access service may also provide Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) formatted data, scripts (e.g., JavaScript or the like), or any other data used by a web browser of the client device to display webpage .","Webpage  may include any number of frames, allowing different menus, dashboard graphics, reports, webpages, and the like to be displayed to the user. For example, webpage  may include a first frame  (e.g., a report frame), a second frame  (e.g., a dashboard frame), and a third frame  (e.g., a menu frame). As used herein, the term \u201centity\u201d is used herein to refer to the collection of a webpage, any frames of the webpage, any visual components of the webpage, and the content of the webpage. In one embodiment, an entity may be defined in the access service by an analytical application designer. Such a designer may, for example, associate data stored in a database with a graphical object (e.g., a meter, a chart, etc.) to be displayed on webpage . In some embodiments, the user of webpage  may be able to set parameters via the access service to control which content is presented via webpage . For example, the user may be able to set parameters such that webpage  displays various content in different frames, allowing the user to monitor different sets of business data in real time, near real time, or after periodic data updates. In further embodiments, access controls may be associated with webpage  and control the permissions of a user's account. For example, some users may be allowed to view sales-related data via webpage , but may be prevented from creating new sales-related data in the system.","In the example shown, webpage  includes various sales data for a company's sales offices. Sales figures may be broken down by any number of different dimensions. For example, the sales figures may be broken down by time period (e.g., day, week, month, fiscal quarter, year, etc.), geographic location (e.g., state, city, etc.), product line (e.g., clothing, accessories, shoes, etc.), or any other classification. The sales figures may also include various raw and calculated values, such as the quantity of items sold, the gross revenue of those sales, and the calculated profit margin for those sales. In one embodiment, the sales figures may be included on webpage  as a table in frame  that includes rows -, which break down the sales data by sales office. Columns - include data regarding the states and cities in which the sales offices are located. For example, row  corresponds to sales data for the company's sales office located in Colorado Springs, Colo. Column  includes data regarding a particular product line. Columns - include sales data including the quantity of items sold, the revenue from those sales, and the profit margin of those sales, respectively. For example, the revenue generated by the Austin, Tex. sales office by selling accessories is $283,630. Any number of different time periods may also be associated with the sales data shown on webpage  (e.g., daily, weekly, quarterly, yearly, etc. sales figures).","In some embodiments, webpage  may be interactive, thereby allowing a user to navigate webpage  to view different reports or sales-related metrics. For example, positioning cursor  over row  or clicking on row  may cause webpage  to display charts or graphs in frame  regarding sales figures for the sales office in Los Angeles. As shown, a graph  and a chart  may be shown in frame , in response to selection of row  in frame . Graph  may be, for example, a bar graph showing the quarterly sales figures for the Los Angeles sales office broken down by month. Similarly, chart  may be a pie chart that the percentage of sales for the Los Angeles sales office broken down by product type (e.g., accessories, pants, shirts, shoes). In various embodiments, the sales data shown in frame  may differ by one or more dimensions (e.g., time frame, product type, etc.) from that shown in frame .","Frame  of webpage  may include any number of different selectable options to allow a user to edit a report (e.g., how the data is presented), edit the data set underlying a report, navigate between reports, set user preferences, or perform other functions. In one embodiment, permissions may be control access to the various functions available via frame . For example, a base user of the analytical application may be restricted to only viewing reports, a data creator may be allowed to enter data underlying a report, and a designer may be allowed to edit how the report is presented. In the example shown, assume that the current user of webpage  has permission to edit reports as well as the data underlying the reports. In such a case, frame  may include buttons ,  configured to allow the user to edit the dataset underlying a report and edit the layout of a report, respectively.","In cases in which the data underlying a report is stored in a database, the system providing webpage  may include a software module configured to convert structured data in a webpage-format into database-formatted parameters, according to various embodiments. For example, webpage  may use a structured data format such as XML or JSON to allow a user to enter, remove, or otherwise edit the data underlying a report. The conversion module may then translate the data entered via webpage  into database parameters, thereby effecting the changes in the database. For example, structured data entered via webpage  may be converted into a set of relational database commands that create corresponding tables in the database (e.g., structured data entered via XML may be converted into corresponding SQL statements for use by the database). Thus, a user may be able to modify the data underlying a report directly within the reporting and analysis utility of webpage  without having to separately access the database or use another application to modify the data. In addition, the user entering the data via webpage  does not need to have knowledge of database commands to modify the underlying data, since the database commands are generated by the system's translation module.","Referring now to , a schematic illustration of a computer system  configured to translate structured data into database entries is shown, according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown, computer system  may include a client device , a web server , and a database . Web server  is generally configured to act as a data reporting and analysis service for client . Web server  is also configured to act as a data aggregation service that provides an interface between its data reporting and analysis services and the corresponding data stored in database . In one embodiment, computer system  may be implemented using the infrastructure described in . For example, client device  may correspond to one of client devices -, web server  may correspond to data aggregation service  and one or more of access services -, and database  may correspond to one of data sources -.","Web server  may be a computing device that includes a processor  and a memory , i.e., a processing circuit. Processor  may be, or may include, one or more microprocessors, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), circuits containing one or more processing components, a group of distributed processing components, circuitry for supporting a microprocessor, or other hardware configured for processing. According to an exemplary embodiment, processor  is configured to execute computer code stored in memory  to complete and facilitate the activities described herein. Memory  can be any volatile or non-volatile computer-readable storage medium capable of storing data or computer code relating to the activities described herein. For example, memory  is shown to include modules - which are computer code modules (e.g., executable code, object code, source code, script code, machine code, etc.) configured for execution by processor . According to some embodiments, web server  may represent a collection of processing devices (e.g., servers, data centers, etc.). In such cases, processor  represents the collective processors of the devices and memory  represents the collective storage devices of the devices. When executed by processor , web server  is configured to complete the activities described herein.","Web server  also includes hardware circuitry for supporting the execution of the computer code stored in memory . For example, web server  is shown to include one or more hardware interfaces . Hardware interface  may include hardware to receive data from a network or serial BUS and to communicate data to another processing circuit via a network or serial BUS. Hardware interface  may be configured to receive or transmit data wirelessly (e.g., via radio signals, via infrared signals, etc.) or over a hardwired connection (e.g., a CAT5 cable, a fiber optic cable, etc.). For example, hardware interface  may receive requests - from client device  or communicate data to client device , such as a webpage.","As shown, any number of different users may operate client  to access the services provided by web server . For example, a first user  may be a base user of the data reporting and analysis service provided by web server , a second user  may be a data creator with account privileges to create or otherwise modify data stored in database , and a third user  may be a application designer with account privileges to control how the data in database  is reported and analyzed. The permissions of users - may be separate and distinct or may overlap for some users, in various embodiments. For example, user  may have the same set of account permissions as user , in addition to permissions regarding the creation and layout of reports (e.g., user  may also be allowed to modify data stored in database ). One or more administrators may control which permissions are held by the user accounts of the data reporting and analysis service. Permissions may also be grouped according to user roles or assigned individually. For example, user  may be given permission to review and analyze sales data regarding the Austin, Tex. sales office, but may be restricted from accessing sales data from other offices.","According to various embodiments, user  may access database  via web server  to add, delete, or modify data stored in database . For example, user  may operate client device  to send a data input request  to web server . Data input request  may be sent once or multiple times to insert data into database  at regular intervals. Data input request  may be formatted using any web-based structured data formats, such as XML or JSON. For example, assume that user  wishes to input data regarding his company's sales offices and the sales figures for those offices. This inputted data may be hierarchically related, as defined by user . For example, one branch of the hierarchy may be Stores>Contacts>Region>Contact and another branch may be Stores>Revenues>Region>Summary. Such a hierarchy allows for different dimensions to be used by web server  when generating reports. Web server  may provide graphical utilities to client device  to facilitate the entry of the data by user . For example, user  may define data input request  via webpage based tables to enter sales data and graphical objects to define the structure of the entered data (e.g., by manipulating file structure graphical objects to define a hierarchy, by dragging and dropping table elements between one another, etc.).","Regardless of how the data is entered by user , it may be represented in data input request  as structured data. For example, one portion of data input request  may include the following XML code:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<stores>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contacts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Region State = \u201cCalifornia\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contact City=\u2033San Francisco\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Store=\u2033e---Fashion San Francisco\u2033 manager=\u2033Daniel\u2033\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Region State=\u2033Colorado\u2033>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contact City=\u2033Colorado Springs\u2033 Store=\u2033e---Fashion"]},{"entry":[{},"Colorado Springs\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"manager=\u2033Bennett\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Region State=\u2033DC\u2033>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contact City=\u2033Washington\u2033 Store=\u2033e---Fashion"]},{"entry":[{},"Washington Tollbooth\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"manager=\u2033Barrett\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Region State=\u2033Texas\u2033>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contact City=\u2033Austin\u2033 Store=\u2033e---Fashion Austin\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"manager=\u2033Larry\u2033\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/contacts>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},". . ."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":"314"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Revenue>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Region City=\u2033Los Angeles\u2033 State=\u2033California\u2033>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<summary Discount=\u2033$1,652\u2033 Lines=\u2033Accessories\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Margin=\u2033$122,496\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"QuantitySold=\u20332,007\u2033 Year=\u201c2004\u201d Salesrevenue=\u2033$285,270\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<summary Discount=\u2033$3,758\u2033 Lines=\u2033City Skirts\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Margin=\u2033$2,710\u2033 QuantitySold=\u203327\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Year=\u201c2004\u201d Salesrevenue=\u2033$5,271\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},". . ."]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Region City=\u2033San Francisco\u2033 State=\u2033California\u2033>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<summary Discount=\u2033$472\u2033 Lines=\u2033Accessories\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Margin=\u2033$89,341\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"QuantitySold=\u20331,370\u2033 Year=\u201c2004\u201d Salesrevenue=\u2033$204,396\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<summary Discount=\u2033$11,517\u2033 Lines=\u2033Dresses\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Margin=\u2033$25,138\u2033"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"QuantitySold=\u2033421\u2033 Year=\u201c2004\u201d Salesrevenue=\u2033$54,915\u2033\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},". . ."]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Region City=\u2033Colorado Springs\u2033 State=\u2033Colorado\u2033>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},". . ."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":"314"},"Data input request  is received by data context , a software module configured to convert the structured data in data input request  into database commands for use in database . In general, data context  acts as a gateway to reach a particular data source, such as database . In some embodiments, data context  may be referenced using a unique key value, allowing for different data contexts to be accessed by different client devices. The commands issued by data context  may be in SQL or another database language to add, delete, or modify data stored in database . Data context  may create a new database based on data input request  or modify an existing database (e.g., by adding, deleting, or changing values stored in an existing database). According to various embodiments, data context  retains the data relationships defined in data input request  when entering the data into database . For example, data context  may maintain the hierarchy of data defined in data input request  by creating table entries that denote a position in the hierarchy.","In one example of data context  maintaining the data structure of data input request , assume that data context  receives the XML data shown above. In such a case, data context  may create tables and table entries in database  to reproduce the hierarchies in data input request  (e.g., Stores>Contacts>Region>Contact, Stores>Revenue>Region>Summary, etc.). For example, data context  may issue the following SQL statement to create a metadata index table as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CREATE TABLE \u201cmetadata_table\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"(row_id char(2),"]},{"entry":[{},"element_name char(25),"]},{"entry":[{},"parent_id char(2));"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["314","314","314"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","element_name","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","stores","\u22121"]},{"entry":["2","contacts","1"]},{"entry":["3","region","2"]},{"entry":["4","contact","3"]},{"entry":["5","revenue","1"]},{"entry":["6","region","5"]},{"entry":["7","summary","6"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},"Data context  may also create tables to store the data from data input request  according to the metadata index Table 1 shown above. For example, data context  may create a first table stores1 for the \u201cstores\u201d element as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"row_id","parent_id"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","\u22121"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"324","sub":"\u2014"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"row_id","parent_id"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"324","sub":"\u2014"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","State","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","California","1"]},{"entry":["2","Colorado","1"]},{"entry":["3","DC","1"]},{"entry":["4","Texas","1"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"324","sub":"\u2014"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","City","Store","Manager","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Los Angeles","e-Fashion Los","Steve","1"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Angeles"]},{"entry":["2","San Francisco","e-Fashion San","Daniel","1"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Francisco"]},{"entry":["3","Colorado Springs","e-Fashion","Bennett","2"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Colorado Springs"]},{"entry":["4","Washington","e-Fashion","Barrett","3"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Washington"]},{"entry":["5","Austin","e-Fashion Austin","Larry","4"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["\u2014","\u2014","\u2014","\u2014","\u2014"],"b":"324"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 6"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"row_id","parent_id"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","City","State","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Los Angeles","California","1"]},{"entry":["2","San Francisco","California","1"]},{"entry":["3","Colorado Springs","Colorado","1"]},{"entry":["4","Washington","DC","1"]},{"entry":["5","Austin","Texas","1"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","Discount","Lines","Margin","Quantity","Year","SalesRevenue","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","1,652","Accessories","122,496","2,007","2004","285,270","1"]},{"entry":["2","3,758","City Skirts","2,710","27","2004","5,271","1"]},{"entry":[". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":["326","324","314"]},"Once the data from data input request  has been stored in database  by data context , it may be used by any number of different application contexts - (e.g., a first through nth application context). In general, an application context contains all of the code that controls what data from database  is available to users, how the data is presented (e.g., which reports, charts, etc. are accessible by a user), how the data is analyzed, and how the data is accessed from database . An authorized user, such as user  may define an application context for use by other users, such as user . For example, user  may create a particular report or dashboard based on the data in database  for presentation to other users. User  may operate client device  or another client device to send a create application request  to web server . Create application request  may contain some or all of the information needed by web server  to create a new application context. Similarly, user  may modify application context  via a design application request . Design application request  may include any component design changes based on the available record set data in database , layout changes, application event changes, or the like.","As shown, application context  includes a data specification  from request  which specifies which data in database  is used by application context . For example, assume that user  wishes to create a webpage-based dashboard that allows user  to review sales revenues from the Los Angeles sales office. In such a case, create application request  may specify that application context  is to use some or all of the sales data entered into database  via data input request . Each of application contexts - may use the same data in database  or different data (e.g., from different data input requests), according to various embodiments.","Design application request  may include design specification , which defines how application context  presents and analyzes data from database . In one embodiment, design specification  may define the webpages , webpage frames , or visual components  presented within frames  that are part of application context . For example, design specification  may define that a first frame of a webpage is to show a pie chart breaking down the sales figures from the Colorado Springs sales office by product type. For purposes of brevity, a collection of webpages , frames , and visual components  are herein referred to as an \u201centity.\u201d Such entities may be provided to client device  based on the permissions of the user. For example, user  may be authorized to view a sales dashboard webpage provided to client device  via application context .","In some embodiments, application context  may also include workspaces , which are allocated portions of memory  through which queries  for database  may be stored. Queries  may be defined via design specification  in conjunction with an entity. For example, the entity showing a pie chart for the Colorado Springs sales office may have one or more corresponding database queries in queries . Each of queries  may also have corresponding record sets (e.g., the data from  retrieved from the query), as well as a set of filters used in the query. For example, various filters applied to sales data stored in database  may subdivide the data by sales office, year, product line, or the like. Condition details in design specification  may be treated as SQL condition statements (e.g., filters), in one embodiment. In some embodiments, query results may be categorized as either a dimension (e.g., a type of data stored in database ) or a measure (e.g., a set of computed values derived from the data in database ). For example, a dimension may be \u201cyear,\u201d thereby allowing the total sales data in database  to be queried along this dimension. In another example, a measure may be a summed value of different sales revenue table entries that results from a query. In some embodiments, each entity may also have a scope attribute through which filters from other entities may be inherited and applied (e.g., a user may be able to drill down through various reports or other analytical utilities of application context  to get increasing levels of detail about the sales data). For example, assume that a first entity has filters F1, F2 (e.g., year=2005 and city=Los Angeles) in its workspace and that a second entity references the first entity within its scope. In such a case, filters F1, F2 may also be used in the second entity's workspace.","In some embodiments, each of queries  is backed by a corresponding view in database  (e.g., a virtual table in database  that aggregates data from different tables according to the parameters of the query). For example, a view that aggregates sales figures for the year 2005 may provide the recordset of data to application context  for use by its corresponding entity or entities. In one embodiment, application context  may include a cache  of recordsets. Cache  generally operates to limit the number of queries and fetches performed by application context  on database . For example, cache  may retain all of the data values for a query used to convey data to a user via a webpage. Cache  may be refreshed by application context  periodically, whenever a new webpage is opened, in response to a refresh request, or at any other time.","Application context  may also include a software-based action executor  configured to execute an action specified in design specification  based on a received action request . Action request  may be, but is not limited to, a request to refresh query data, filter data using dynamic values, or navigating to another application state (e.g., navigating between different webpages). For example, user  may request that cached data  be refreshed via action request . In response, action executor  may re-run the corresponding queries in queries  to refresh the results in cache . The updated data in cache  may then be returned to client device  via an entity (e.g., one or more of webpages , frames , or visual components ). In another example, user  may click on a displayed sales office to view additional sales metrics for that office, as shown in , thereby causing client device  to send action request  to web server . In response, action executor  may cause the corresponding webpages , frames , or visual components  for the selected sales office to be returned to client device  for display. In some embodiments, user  may also request certain analytical functions to be performed by application context  via action executor , such as numerical computations on the data. For example, action request  may request that certain sales data in cache  be added or subtracted from one another and the results returned to client device . In further embodiments, action executor  may utilize workflows to control the ordering of actions available to a user at any particular time. For example, a particular webpage being accessed by user  may have certain actions associated with it, such as \u201cView Details,\u201d \u201cAnalyze Data,\u201d or \u201cChange Sales Office.\u201d","In various embodiments, action executor  may be configured to use account security setting to limit the actions available to a particular user's account. In one embodiment, action executor  may be configured to prevent some or all of the users of application context  from changing the data stored in database . For example, user  may be limited to simply accessing the reporting and analytical webpages  of application context , but may be prevented from changing any of the underlying data in database . In another embodiment, action executor may be configured to allow certain users to intermingle data input requests with action requests (e.g., the user has both data creator and data analysis privileges). In such a case, new data sets may be generated and stored in database  as a result. For example, user  may create a new table or set of tables based on analytical calculations performed on the sales data in database  by action executor .","Referring now to , a flow diagram of a process  for converting structured data into database entries is shown, according to an exemplary embodiment. Process  generally allows a user of an online data reporting and analysis service to add, modify, or delete data used by the service from within the service itself. Process  may be implemented by one or more computing devices, such as web server  shown in , executing machine instructions configured to cause the device to perform process . The instructions may correspond to a single application that implements process  or an application that performs other functions, as well.","Process  includes receiving structured data (step ). The received structured data may be any form of text-based data that includes metadata to provide a structure for other data in the text-based data. In various embodiments, the received structured data may be in a format configured for use within a webpage. Exemplary formats for the received data include, but are not limited to, XML and JSON. The received data may correspond to a single set of structured data (e.g., a retrieved set of data having a structure, a text file, etc.) or multiple sets of structured data (e.g., multiple text files, multiple sets of interrelated data, etc.). In various embodiments, the structured data may be generated via a web-based interface to a data reporting or analysis service. For example, the structured data may include data for use by the service as part of a report (e.g., a user of the service may request that data inputted by the user be made available for reporting or analysis by the service).","Process  includes identifying elements and attributes in the structured data (step ). In some embodiments, a parser may parse the received structured data to identify the elements and attributes in the structured data. For example, XML formatted data may be parsed using a Simple Application Programming Interface for XML (SAX) parser. Other parsers may also be used, depending on the format of the structured data. In general, elements refer to metadata in the received data that serve to classify the different data values or to form a data structure using the data values. Attributes, in contrast, are directly associated with the data values in the structured data. For example, consider the following structured data in XML format:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<Stores>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Contacts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Region State = \u201cCalifornia\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<contact City=\u2033San Francisco\u2033 Store=\u2033e-Fashion San Francisco\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Manager=\u2033Daniel\u2033\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/Region>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003<\/Contacts>"},{"entry":"<\/Stores>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},"Process  includes generating a metadata table entry in a database (step ). In various embodiments, a metadata table may be created in a database according to the data structure of the elements in the received data. In one embodiment, a metadata table may generated at least three columns: a row_id column, an element_name column, and a parent_id column. Each entry in the row_id column may be a unique value and used as the primary key for entries in the table, in one embodiment. In some embodiments, entries in the element_name column and the parent_id column may be populated using the name of an identified element in the structured data and its parent element, if any (e.g., the row_id of the parent element in the database table may be used to populate the parent_id field). If no parent element exists, a null or otherwise unique value may be used for that element's parent_id. For example, the topmost element in a hierarchy may be assigned a parent_id of \u22121. Using the exemplary XML code discussed previously with respect to step , identification of the \u201cStores\u201d element in the received structured data may be used to generate the following entry in the metadata table in the database:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 8"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["row_id","element_name","parent_id"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","stores","\u22121"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Process  includes generating a new table in the database referencing the metadata table entry (step ). In some embodiments, the new table may be named using the row_id of the element in the metadata table or the name of the element. For example, a new table named stores1 may be generated in response to the {1, stores, \u22121} entry in the metadata table being created in step . In various embodiments, the table may include columns corresponding to a new row_id value (e.g., a unique key for row entries in the new table), the parent_id of the element from the metadata table, and any attributes and data values associated with the identified element. If an element has no attributes, there will be only a single row_id column. For example, the stores1 table may be defined as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 9"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"row_id","parent_id"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","\u22121"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"\u2014"},"Process  may include a decision step in which it is determined whether or not there exist any additional elements in the received structured data (step ). If so, steps - may be repeated for any remaining elements in the received data. For example, steps - may be repeated for the \u201cContacts,\u201d \u201cRegion,\u201d and \u201cContact\u201d elements in the above example of step . As a result of this, each element would have a unique row entry in the metadata table (e.g., Table 8) and its own corresponding table in the database. For example, the \u201cContacts\u201d element may have a table entry {2, Contacts, 1} in the metadata table and its own table, contacts2 in the database. Elements having attributes in the structured data may also have their own tables with columns that correspond to the attributes and attribute data values. For example, the region3 table may have columns {row_id, state, parent_id} and a row entry {1, California, 1} based on the exemplary XML code of step . Steps - may be repeated any number of times until no unprocessed elements remain the received structured data.","Process  include providing the database data for purposes of reporting and data analysis (step ). Once the structured data has been added to a database, it may be used by any number of reporting and data analysis services. For example, data regarding a particular store's sales figures may be included in an online sales report. In some embodiments, the data stored in the database is accessed by the service using queries in a database format, such as SQL. In cases in which the service is a web-based service, it may also be configured to allow a user to send further structured data for entry into the database using process . For example, an online reporting and data analysis service may be configured to allow a certain user to also add, modify, or delete data stored in the database through a webpage of the service by using a structured data format, such as XML or JSON.","Referring now to , an illustration  is shown of structured data being converted into database entries and used for online data reporting and analysis, according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown, a client device  may access a reporting\/analysis service  via a network, such as a LAN, WAN, or the Internet. Reporting\/analysis service  is also in communication with a database , which may be stored on the same device as reporting\/analysis service  or on a different device, according to various embodiments. In one embodiment, reporting\/analysis service  may be accessed by client device via a web browser.","As shown, reporting\/analysis service  is configured to allow a user of client device  to enter data into database  via a webpage . In some embodiments, reporting\/analysis service  may first determine whether the user's account allows modification of the data in database  before providing webpage  to client device . For example, some users may be restricted to only viewing reports or analyzing the data in database . Webpage  may include a first portion  that allows the user of client device  to define a structure for the data to be added to database . Such a structure may be a hierarchy or another data structure, in various embodiments. For example, webpage  may include inputs ,  that allow the user to add or remove elements to construct a metadata hierarchy of elements (e.g., Stores>Contacts>Region>Contact, Stores>Revenue, etc.). Webpage  may also include a second portion  configured to allow the user of client device  to add or remove attributes and data values to any defined elements. For example, selection of the \u201cContact\u201d element in portion  may cause table  to be displayed in portion . Portion  may include inputs ,  configured to allow the user to add or remove attributes of the selected element (e.g., columns of table ), respectively. Portion  may also include inputs ,  to add or remove data values for the attributes (e.g., rows entered into table ). For example, the user may add the attributes \u201cCity,\u201d \u201cStore,\u201d and \u201cManager,\u201d to the Contact element.","Once the data values, attributes, and element structure have been defined in webpage , the user may operate client device  to send the corresponding structured data to reporting\/analysis service . For example, XML data  containing the structured data may be sent by client device  to a conversion module  of reporting\/analysis service. Conversion module  is configured to parse the received XML data  and create the corresponding tables and table entries in database For example, conversion module  may issue SQL commands  to database  to reproduce the structure, metadata, and data values in XML data . In some embodiments, conversion module  creates a metadata table  which represents the structure of the elements in XML data . For example, conversion module  may create separate row entries in metadata table  for each element in XML data , with each row entry referencing the row id of the element's parent element (e.g., the row entry for the \u201cContact\u201d element references the row entry for the \u201cRegion\u201d element, etc.). In further embodiments, conversion module  may also create a new table for each element in XML data . For example, conversion module  may create tables - for the \u201cStores,\u201d \u201cContacts,\u201d \u201cRegion,\u201d and \u201cContact\u201d elements, respectively. Tables - may include any attributes of the corresponding elements as columns. For example, table  may include columns for the \u201cCity,\u201d \u201cStore,\u201d and \u201cManager\u201d attributes associated with the \u201cContact\u201d element. Each of tables - may also have a parent id column that references a row id of the table of its parent entity. For example, table  may include an entry that references the first row of table , thereby signifying that the San Francisco store is located in the State of California.","Tables - entered into database  by conversion module  may also be available to reporting\/analysis service  for purposes of presenting the data to users. In one embodiment, a user having designer privileges may define an application context  in reporting\/analysis service . Application context  is generally configured to use the data added to database  as part of an online report or analysis webpage or portal. For example, the user having designer privileges may define the layout of the webpage or portal, any visual components to be shown on a webpage (e.g., charts, graphs, etc.), and the types of data stored in database  to be presented via a webpage. Thus, a user accessing reporting\/analysis service  may review the data added to database  by conversion module  via a webpage of application context . For example, a user of client device  may access a webpage  of reporting\/analysis service  that uses the data added to database  by conversion module . Webpage  may simply report the data or my allow the user to perform analysis on the data (e.g., by requesting additional metrics or computations), in various embodiments. Since the data is added to database  directly from within the reporting\/analysis service , a user of service  does not need to use another program to enter the data into database  or have specific knowledge of the database commands needed to enter the data into database .","Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer software embodied on a tangible medium, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., one or more modules of computer program instructions, encoded on one or more computer storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition, the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially-generated propagated signal, e.g., a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal, that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be, or be included in, a computer-readable storage device, a computer-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory array or device, or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover, while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal, a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially-generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be, or be included in, one or more separate components or media (e.g., multiple CDs, disks, or other storage devices). Accordingly, the computer storage medium may be tangible.","The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer-readable storage devices or received from other sources.","The term \u201cclient or \u201cserver\u201d include all kinds of apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, a system on a chip, or multiple ones, or combinations, of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit). The apparatus can also include, in addition to hardware, code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question, e.g., code that constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating system, a cross-platform runtime environment, a virtual machine, or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures, such as web services, distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.","A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub-programs, or portions of code). A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.","The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by, and apparatus can also be implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit).","Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally, a processor will receive instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices. Moreover, a computer can be embedded in another device, e.g., a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or video player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device (e.g., a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive), to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.","To provide for interaction with a user, implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube), LCD (liquid crystal display), OLED (organic light emitting diode), TFT (thin-film transistor), plasma, other flexible configuration, or any other monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard, a pointing device, e.g., a mouse, trackball, etc., or a touch screen, touch pad, etc., by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user; for example, by sending webpages to a web browser on a user's client device in response to requests received from the web browser.","Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back-end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an application server, or that includes a front-end component, e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification, or any combination of one or more such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d) and a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), an inter-network (e.g., the Internet), and peer-to-peer networks (e.g., ad hoc peer-to-peer networks).","The features disclosed herein may be implemented on a smart television module (or connected television module, hybrid television module, etc.), which may include a processing circuit configured to integrate Internet connectivity with more traditional television programming sources (e.g., received via cable, satellite, over-the-air, or other signals). The smart television module may be physically incorporated into a television set or may include a separate device such as a set-top box, Blu-ray or other digital media player, game console, hotel television system, and other companion device. A smart television module may be configured to allow viewers to search and find videos, movies, photos and other content on the web, on a local cable TV channel, on a satellite TV channel, or stored on a local hard drive. A set-top box (STB) or set-top unit (STU) may include an information appliance device that may contain a tuner and connect to a television set and an external source of signal, turning the signal into content which is then displayed on the television screen or other display device. A smart television module may be configured to provide a home screen or top level screen including icons for a plurality of different applications, such as a web browser and a plurality of streaming media services, a connected cable or satellite media source, other web \u201cchannels\u201d, etc. The smart television module may further be configured to provide an electronic programming guide to the user. A companion application to the smart television module may be operable on a mobile computing device to provide additional information about available programs to a user, to allow the user to control the smart television module, etc. In alternate embodiments, the features may be implemented on a laptop computer or other personal computer, a smartphone, other mobile phone, handheld computer, a tablet PC, or other computing device.","While this specification contains many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.","Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product embodied on a tangible medium or packaged into multiple such software products.","Thus, particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases, the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition, the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations, multitasking or parallel processing may be utilized."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and advantages of the disclosure will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
