---
title: Social network system with tracked unread messages
abstract: A social network system that tracks unread messages across a social network for a social network user receives a request from the user to display unread messages across the social network and generates and displays a list of one or more conversations, where the user is a member of the displayed conversations. The system then, for each conversation, determines and displays the number of unread messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479473&OS=09479473&RS=09479473
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09479473
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND INFORMATION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["One embodiment is directed generally to a networked computer system, and in particular to a social network system that tracks unread messages.","A social network service or system, or \u201csocial network\u201d, is an online service, platform, or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people who, for example, share interests, activities, backgrounds, or real-life connections. A social network service typically includes a representation of each user, typically referred to as a user \u201cprofile\u201d, his\/her social links, and a variety of additional services. Most social network services are web-based and provide means for users to interact over the Internet, such as e-mail and instant messaging. Social networking sites allow users to share ideas, activities, events, and interests within their individual networks.","The use of social network services in an enterprise\/business context is increasingly popular. Because social networks connect people at low cost, they can be beneficial for entrepreneurs and small businesses looking to expand their contact bases. These networks often act as a customer relationship management tool for companies selling products and services. Companies can also use social networks for targeted advertising in the form of banners and text ads. Since businesses operate globally, social networks can make it easier to keep in touch with contacts around the world.","One embodiment is a social network system that tracks unread messages across a social network for a social network user. The system receives a request from the user to display unread messages across the social network and generates and displays a list of one or more conversations, where the user is a member of the displayed conversations. The system then, for each conversation, determines and displays the number of unread messages.","One embodiment is a social network system that creates social objects that correspond to business objects from enterprise business applications. The system further generates conversations formed of messages and other types of posts. Conversations can be related to a social object, a user's \u201cwall\u201d or unrelated. For a particular user, the system determines and displays the number of read\/unread messages for each conversation that the user is a member of across the entire social network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","10","51","54","45","45","51","54","10","51","52","53","54","10","51","54","10"]},"Social network server\/system , in conjunction with the other devices of , substantially provides the functionality of a social network, as disclosed in more detail below. Social network server  is coupled to an enterprise application server . Enterprise application server  in one embodiment is a server or servers that execute enterprise applications, such as human resource (\u201cHR\u201d) applications, customer relationship management (\u201cCRM\u201d) applications, enterprise resource planning (\u201cERP\u201d) applications, etc. In one embodiment, the enterprise applications on server  are the \u201cE-Business Suite\u201d or \u201cFusion\u201d applications from Oracle Corp. Server  can be directly coupled to server , or can be coupled in any other way such as over a network. In addition, the functionality of server  can be included on server . Further, server  can be coupled to clients - directly through a network or other means rather than through server . Server  is generally not part of social network , but provides the business objects and system-of-records that are used to generate social objects.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","10","12","22","12","22","10","14","22","14","10","20","10"]},"Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media, and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and includes any information delivery media.","Processor  is further coupled via bus  to a display , such as a Liquid Crystal Display (\u201cLCD\u201d). A keyboard  and a cursor control device , such as a computer mouse, are further coupled to bus  to enable a user to interface with system .","In one embodiment, memory  stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system  that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include a social network module  for creating a social object, relating a conversation to a social object, and providing tracking and sorting of unread messages across the social network, as disclosed in more detail below. System  can be part of a larger system, such as an ERP system, if that functionality is not already provided by server  of . Therefore, system  can include one or more additional functional modules  to include the additional functionality. A database  is coupled to bus  to provide centralized storage for modules  and  and store data such as user profiles, social objects , conversations , etc. Storage of these items can also be done remote from system .","In one embodiment, social network  of  is a secure enterprise collaboration and social network software application and platform designed to facilitate social interactions within the enterprise environment (as opposed to a consumer environment) connecting people, applications and business processes within and across businesses. Social network  includes user profiles, conversations  and social objects .","A \u201cconversation\u201d in social network  in one embodiment is a persistent, shared stream of posts and comments (i.e., messages) including, for example, text, rich-text, documents, audio, video, programmatic content (referred to as \u201cgadgets\u201d), etc. A conversation has a defined membership ranging from \u201cPrivate\u201d (i.e., membership of one\/self), through N-members consisting of individuals and or groups of individuals or sub-groups, to \u201cPublic\u201d with visibility open across all members of social network . Posts within a conversation are viewed with new posts beneath old posts (i.e., multiple posts can be read as text on a page in a book), or vice versa, or in any type of hierarchical format.","One embodiment generates social objects. All data from enterprise applications and business processes can potentially be socialized as a \u201csocial object.\u201d Social objects contain records from a business application or process (referred to as a \u201csystem of record\u201d) that are mapped as a visual and programmatic integration into social network  via social network server . For example, a sales opportunity from within a CRM enterprise application (e.g., the name of a sales prospect and related data for the sales prospect, such as the estimated probability that a sale will close, the expected revenue of the sale, etc.) is integrated into social network  as a social object. As a result, social objects are explicitly coupled with conversations, where the social object can be discussed in context, and a record of that discussion can be retained for future viewing.","In one embodiment, a social object in social network  includes the following:\n\n","A social object may be generated for social network  for any business object of an application that users may desire to collaborate on over social network . Examples of social objects include (1) an \u201cOpportunity\u201d social object from a CRM application; (2) a \u201cCustomer\u201d social object from a CRM application; (3) a \u201cService Request\u201d social object from a CRM application; (4) a \u201cBusiness Process Shipment Escalation\u201d social object from a business process application; (5) a \u201cPortal\u201d subject social object from a web portal application; (6) a \u201cGeneral Ledger Period Close\u201d social object from a financial\/ERP application; (7) an \u201cInventory Item\u201d social object from an inventory\/ERP application; and (8) an \u201cOrdered Product\u201d social object from a distributed order orchestration application (e.g., \u201cFusion Distributed Order Orchestration (DOO)\u201d application from Oracle Corp.).","In one embodiment, a conversation for social network  can be created for any collaborative purpose, including having a specific discussion, making a decision or resolving a problem. A conversation can be related to a social object. The conversation can have membership which is identical, a superset or a subset of the social object membership. For example, a conversation can be created that is related to a sales opportunity social object in which the sales team works on preparing the presentation for the customer. A second related conversation can be created in which only the sales lead works with the legal team in reviewing contractual changes requested by the customer. Through related conversations, multiple, parallel threads of work between different constituent parties all related to the changing of state of an object within the system-of-record (e.g., the opportunity changes from a state of \u201cNegotiation\u201d to a state of \u201cWon\u201d) is achieved while maintaining the relationship, understanding and contextual persistent of the collaboration that drove the changes. For example, related conversations for an Opportunity social object may include a conversation for preparing a presentation, with the suggested presentation content and best practice notes for delivery, and a conversation for finalizing the contract with the appropriate draft contract for the deal size, industry, product and sales region with the associated legal team member added. A social object can also be related to another social object.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","301","300","301","100","40","301","300"]},"Social object  further includes a wall  that shows a history of all of the changes that have occurred on the social object. For example, at , the win probability is shown to have been updated by \u201cJulian Henderson\u201d from 50% to 60% on May 14, 2012 at 11:44 a.m. At , a new member, \u201cCharles Dreyfus\u201d was given access to the social object on May 14, 2012 at 11:43 a.m.","Social object  further includes a list of all members of the social object at . The members who are currently online for that social object (e.g., member ) are shown with a typical thumbnail picture, but members who are currently offline (e.g., member ) are shown as a grayed out thumbnail picture.","Social object  further includes a list of all conversations related to social object  at . A user can view one of the conversations by selecting the conversation. In one embodiment, social object  and new related conversations such as related conversations  are created when the user is interacting with the external or third party enterprise system such as a CRM or ERP system executing on, for example, server  of . For a given business object within a system-of-record of an enterprise application, a social object and a customized set of related conversations with content can be created programmatically (e.g., as a pre-defined template) to assist with the collaboration required to change the state of the system-of-record. In one embodiment, an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d) from the enterprise application to the social network application allows changes in the system-of-record to be communicated to the social network system, and vice versa. A selectable list of other social objects that are related to social object  can also be displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","400","401","402","400","410","412","400","413","414","415","400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","500","500","501","502","500","400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","600","100","605","605","10","100"]},"In the example of , tab  is selected to generate a conversation. However, because the object is not yet shared, a message  indicates that the object is not yet shared, and a \u201cShare\u201d button  is provided to share the object. Sharing the object causes a social object to be generated that corresponds to business object . An API to social network server  and social network  is used to generate the social object.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","609","702","100","600","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["600","704","802"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6","FIG. 9","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["600","605","605","902","100","315"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2","FIG. 10","FIGS. 11 and 14"],"b":"16"},"At , social network module  receives from an application a business object and associated system-of-record. In one embodiment, the application is an enterprise application such as a CRM or ERP application. An example of a system-of-record for a business object is shown in section  of . An API to social network server  and social network  of  is used to receive the business object.","At , social network module  generates a social object that corresponds to the business object and that comprises the system-of-record. An example of a social object is social object  of , in which the system-of-record is shown in section .","At , social network module  assigns one or more members to the social object. An example of assigned members are members  of social object  of .","At , social network module  associates a wall to the social object. The wall displays changes to the system-of-record. An example of a wall is wall  of social object  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 2"],"b":"16"},"At , the social object is displayed (assuming it has been created) with the system-of-record. For example, as shown in , social object  is displayed within the system-of-record for data storage replacement opportunity.","At , it is determined if there are any existing conversations for the social object. If no at , a conversation is created at . The new conversation at  is automatically related to the social object.","If conversations exist , the conversation is selected at , and the conversation is then related to the social object at .","The functionality of  can be performed within an enterprise application, as shown in , or within social network . An API to social network server  and social network  is used to provide the integration of .","As disclosed, social network  allows a social object to be generated and one or more conversations can be related to the social object. The social object is a set of properties tied to a wall. These properties are directly connected to the object in the system-of-record, and are updated either when they are changed in the system-of-record directly, or through actions in social network . Changes made within social network  are pushed back to the system-of-record to keep the object's properties current at all times. All changes can be logged on the wall, and related conversations can easily be created to discuss specific issues concerning the social object. The social object can be exposed through any type of applications, including the web client, \u201cOutlook\u201d from Microsoft Corp., or other email applications, standalone embeddable clients, and all mobile clients.","Social network  includes a set of predefined integration mechanisms that enable the user to define how and what data is retrieved from the system-of-record, how to display that data in social network  (for example, through social objects) and who within social network  has access to the data.","These predefined mechanisms are built to handle the most common application chores, such as specifying membership lists in social network  and property sensitivity (i.e., not everyone should be able to see or update all properties without authorization), and updating properties in both directions. For example, when a social object property is updated in the system-of-record, that change is published in social network  based on the user permission rules that the user has defined.","Social objects are defined in social network  as records within a system-of-record, such as customer or service records from a CRM system. Social object records include metadata and a wall, which includes membership lists and related conversations. Social objects expose system-of-record information to users who interact with and collaborate around the data through a user interface of social network .","The social objects provide a uniform and collaborative view of information from all integrated system-of-record. The social objects provide a wide range of services and capabilities in one embodiment, including:\n\n","As an example of the functionality of a social object, after a CRM Opportunity social object retrieves a stream of data input from the social object's wall, the process may unfold as follows:\n\n","Communication also works in the other direction. When the Opportunity is updated from within social network , the change is reflected in the system-of-record as well. Before the change is made, social network  checks to ensure that the user has the right to update the object, from changing a simple property to changing the state of the object (for example from \u201cPending\u201d to \u201cWon\u201d). There is no need to go back into CRM to update key fields as social network  automatically provides the updates.","As discussed, social network  includes multiple areas that accept user input, collectively referred to as \u201cconversations\u201d. These areas include an unrelated conversation, a conversation related to a social object, or a conversation related to a personal profile of a user. Each conversation has one or more members. The user input can be in the form of posts or comments, collectively referred to as user \u201cmessages\u201d. Examples of messages include text or rich text posts, comments, or attached documents, audio files or video files. In one embodiment, each message \u201cbelongs\u201d to a single conversation. A message can also be generated by social object updates generated by a system of record. In one embodiment, for each user and each conversation that the user is a member of, social network  determines the unread\/read status of each message aggregated over the entire social network.","By utilizing the read\/unread status, a user can visualize, sort and order activity that has occurred by whether they have seen\/read it before. For example, a user can find the conversation with the highest number of messages\/posts that they as an individual have not read. Further, the user within the conversation stream can easily distinguish the posts that they have not read from the posts that they have read. Once the posts have been read, the user can either mark all posts as read or just mark individual posts as read.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1200","100","1201","1202","1203","1202","1210","1211","1212","1213","1210","1220","1221","1211","1223","1224"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12","FIG. 13"],"b":["1210","1210","1310","1311","1320"]},"As discussed, social network  via social network server  of  keeps track of which messages have been read by each user. A message can be marked read explicitly by the user, or the software can automatically mark it read (e.g., if it has been displayed on the screen for a certain amount of time). Maintaining this state information allows social network server  to efficiently provide each user with a customized list of social objects and conversations that helps users find new or updated information. In particular, the list of the user's social objects and conversations (i.e., the social objects and conversations the user is a member of) can be ordered by the number of unread messages. Therefore, the user does not waste time reviewing information that has already been seen, and the user is directed to information, such as social object status changes, that is effectively new to the user.","In one embodiment, in order to track unread messages, each conversation maintains a count of the number of messages in that conversation. Each message in a conversation is assigned an ordinal number (1, 2, 3, etc.) in increasing order. For each (Member, Conversation) tuple, a list is maintained of the message ordinals that have been marked read by that member. This is represented by an ordered list of ranges, which offer the possibility for optimization by condensing the list. For example, if a conversation has six messages, with ordinals 1 through 6, and the member has read messages 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 (but not 3), the list of unread messages in a conversation for a given user can be represented as two lists: the range [1-2] and the range [4-6]. If the member subsequently reads message 3, the ranges [1-2], [3], [4-6] can be condensed into a single range [1-6].","Embodiments further maintain a count of the messages\/posts in each conversation that have been read by each member in a database table, allowing queries and sorts to be performed in a database such as database  of . In one embodiment, the database table can be expressed as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0081"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2003create table XConvMemberInfoObjects"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"("]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ConversationID","INTEGER NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"UserID","INTEGER NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"MessagesRead","INTEGER NOT NULL"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},"Embodiments further maintain a database table of conversation messages\/posts, such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"create table XConvMessagesObjects"]},{"entry":[{},"("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ConversationID","INTEGER NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"MessageOrdinal","INTEGER NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"MessageCount","INTEGER NOT NULL"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 2","FIG. 14"],"b":"16"},"At , a request from a user of social network  to display all conversations that contain unread messages is received. In one embodiment, the request is in the form of a selection of the overview\/unread selectors as shown in .","At , a list of all conversations that the user is a member of is generated. The conversations may include an unrelated conversation (i.e., not related to a social object or personal profile), a conversation related to a social object, or a conversation related to a personal profile of the user. Each conversation has one or more members, and one of the members is the user.","At , for each conversation, the number of unread messages for the user (i.e., messages that the user has not read) is determined. If a message has not been read by the particular user, it will be counted as an unread message for the particular user, whether or not it has been read by other members. Examples of messages include text or rich text posts, comments, or attached documents, audio files or video files. A message may be related to multiple social objects or other conversations. A message can also be generated by social object updates generated by a system of record.","At , the conversations are sorted in descending order by the number of unread messages and the list of conversations with the corresponding number of unread messages is displayed. Other sorting criteria options can also be used.","As disclosed, for a user of the social network that is a member of one or more conversations, embodiments display for each conversation the number of unread messages for the user, and can sort the conversations by the number of unread\/read messages. Therefore, the user can fairly easily determine which messages to read and\/or which conversation to focus on for conversations for that user across the entire social network.","Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and\/or described herein. However, it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
