---
title: Hitch-mounted mortar munition system
abstract: A mortar mount adapter is configured to fit in a towing hitch system mounted on a land vehicle. The towing hitch system absorbs and disperses recoil force from the mortar. The adapter is disposed in one of a trailer hitch receiver, a gooseneck hitch socket, and a fifth wheel hitch. The adapter includes a socket for the ball of a mortar tube and a shank extending from the socket wherein the socket and the shank are symmetrical about the central longitudinal axis of the adapter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09102204&OS=09102204&RS=09102204
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09102204
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130723
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the United States Government.","The invention relates in general to mortar munition systems, and in particular to vehicle-mounted mortar munition systems.","Mortar munition systems have long been known in warfare. In general, a mortar system includes four basic components: the ammunition or projectile, a barrel or tube, a bipod that supports the tube, and a base plate that disperses the recoil force. The projectile is usually loaded into the muzzle of the tube. Firing the mortar includes using chemical combustion to propel the projectile out of the tube. Some mortars use a projectile with the propelling charge incorporated in the projectile. Other mortars use a propelling charge that is placed in the tube prior to inserting the projectile in the tube.","Recoil force is generated when a round, such as a projectile, is fired from the mortar tube. The base plate receives the recoil force from the tube and disperses the recoil force over an area. Dispersing the recoil force decreases the force per unit area. Recoil force dispersion is important for both mounted and dismounted mortar systems. If the base plate did not disperse the recoil force, an undesirable point loading would result. In a mounted system, point loading may destroy the vehicle to which the mortar is mounted, or may pierce or otherwise damage the vehicle. In a mounted system, if the recoil force is not dispersed, the recoil energy must be absorbed by a recoil system. In a dismounted system, point loading may eventually bury the mortar underground.","Mortar munition systems provide a range of capabilities including providing light at night, providing smoke screens for defense, and launching high explosive projectiles for offense. Mortar tubes are often shorter than artillery tubes. Advancements in technology have enabled mortar weapons to become more easily transportable, thereby allowing infantry to use less artillery. In some cases, a mortar, for example, a 60 mm mortar, may be fired from a multi-use land vehicle having a cargo bed. The multi-use land vehicle may not be a dedicated mortar firing platform, because it is used for purposes other than firing mortars. Thus, a permanently mounted mortar system is not desirable on such a vehicle. Examples of multi-use land vehicles are the High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV), jeeps, and pickup trucks.","To fire a mortar from a multi-use land vehicle's cargo bed, a standard mortar base plate has been used, along with sandbags or tires to help absorb the recoil force and minimize damage to the land vehicle's cargo bed. Problems with the use of sandbags and tires include, among others, their availability and weight and the lack of a stable firing platform. The lack of a stable firing platform is unsafe and greatly decreases the accuracy of the mortar projectiles.","A need exists for a mortar mount for a multi-use land vehicle that is easily installed or retrofitted, is stable and does not interfere with other uses of the land vehicle.","One aspect of the invention is a mortar mount adapter configured to fit in one of a trailer hitch receiver, a gooseneck hitch socket, and a king pin opening in a fifth wheel hitch. The adapter has a central longitudinal axis and a socket for a ball and socket joint in one end. A shank extends from the socket. The socket and the shank are symmetrical about the longitudinal axis. The socket is configured to receive a ball on a breech end of a mortar tube.","The shank may include at least one transverse through hole normal to the longitudinal axis. A longitudinal through hole may extend from a bottom of the socket to an end of the shank. The longitudinal through hole is centered around the longitudinal axis. The shank may include a reduced thickness portion that forms an exterior slot.","An end of the shank may include an opening formed therein. A spring and\/or a damper may be disposed in the opening in series or in parallel.","A portion of the socket may be cut away to form a lateral opening for rotating a mortar tube to a horizontal position.","The socket end of the adapter may include a flange centered on the longitudinal axis. In one embodiment, the socket includes a counter bore and a spherical surface. In another embodiment, the socket includes a conical surface and a spherical surface.","Another aspect of the invention is a method that includes providing a mortar mount adapter and inserting the adapter into one of a trailer hitch receiver, a gooseneck hitch socket, and a king pin opening in a fifth wheel hitch.","The method may include inserting a ball of a breech of a mortar tube into the socket in the adapter. A round may be fired from the mortar tube.","A portion of the socket joint of the adapter may be cut away to form a lateral opening therein and the method may include firing a round from a mortar tube in a direct fire manner.","In one embodiment, the method may include inserting a pintle adapter into the mortar mount adapter.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Novel apparatuses and methods for firing mortars from a land vehicle use known towing hitch systems. Towing hitch systems distribute the load of a towed vehicle over some or all of the towing vehicle. In the case of firing a mortar, the towing hitch system distributes the recoil force of the mortar over some or all of the land vehicle. A towing hitch system uses a towing hitch support that is rigidly fixed to the main frame of the towing vehicle. The main frame of the towing vehicle may include longitudinal and transverse members. Towing hitch systems are rigidly fixed in a known manner to the main frame of the vehicle using, for example, threaded fasteners, clamps, welding, brackets, etc.","In one embodiment of the invention, the towing hitch system is a trailer hitch receiver, also known as a \u201cbumper pull\u201d hitch. The trailer hitch receiver may be fixed to the front or rear of the vehicle frame. Class III-V trailer hitch receivers may be used.","In another embodiment of the invention, the towing hitch system is a gooseneck towing hitch system. Gooseneck towing hitch systems may be used with vehicles having a cargo bed or other suitable mounting means.","In another embodiment of the invention, the towing hitch system is a fifth wheel towing hitch system. Fifth wheel towing systems may be used with vehicles having a cargo bed or other suitable mounting means.","Trailer hitch receivers, gooseneck towing hitch systems, and fifth wheel towing hitch systems are all readily commercially available. For example, see www.etrailer.com for a list of manufacturers. These towing hitch systems may be retrofitted on land vehicles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["10","12","10","11","10","20","12","14","10","14","10","16","18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["22","22","14","10","12","24","22","24","26","26","20","12","26","28","28","30","32","28","26","26","26","30"]},"Gooseneck towing hitch  and towing ball  may be used with vehicle  to tow trailers in a known manner. When not towing, towing ball  may be removed and inserted in an upside down configuration in socket  to provide a smooth surface in cargo bed . When firing a mortar from vehicle , towing ball  is removed from gooseneck socket  and a removable mortar mount adapter  () is inserted in gooseneck socket .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["34","36","38","39","39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C","FIG. 7C"],"b":["40","40","40","40","40","40","40","42","39","34","42","42","42","44","46","44","39","42","39"]},"Socket  may be used with a quick release retaining system that enables mortar tube  to be quickly disconnected from socket . One example of a quick release retaining system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,277,141 issued on Oct. 2, 2012 to Labar et al. and entitled \u201cBall and Socket Joint for Indirect Fire Weapon.\u201d","Adapter  includes a shank  centered on axis A. Depending on the shape of gooseneck socket , the exterior surface of shank  may be, for example, cylindrical or prismatic. Shank  may include a friction-reducing coating, such as TEFLON\u00ae, or grease may be applied to shank . Shank  may include a transverse through hole  with a central axis that is normal to longitudinal axis A. When adapter  is inserted in gooseneck socket , locking rod  () may be inserted in transverse through hole  to secure adapter  in socket . A second transverse through hole (not shown) may be formed ninety degrees from through hole , for ease of securing adapter  in socket .","A longitudinal through hole  centered on axis A may be formed in adapter . Through hole  enables debris to collect or migrate away from contact surfaces in socket . The movement of debris from contact surfaces in socket  helps prevent ball  from seizing in socket .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["12","24","26","32","40","26","32","50","50","48","40","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["40","50","48","54","54","56","32","56","40","26","40","26","56","32","56","32","40","26","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["42","42","47","49"]},"Axial movement of adapter  in gooseneck socket  enables the use of springs and\/or dampers to absorb recoil. Some examples of springs are compression springs and Belleville springs. Dampers may be rubber, gas, or hydraulic, for example.  is a transverse sectional view of adapter  having an opening  formed in one end. A spring  and a damper  may be disposed in parallel in opening . Spring  and damper  may also be arranged in series in opening . In addition or as an alternative to spring  and damper , an external spring  may be placed between a bottom surface of shank  and a bottom surface of socket . A fastener  may be fixed internally in shank , for example, with threads. Fastener  may reciprocate in an opening  in gooseneck socket .","When firing the mortar horizontally (direct fire), adapter  may be modified to enable mortar tube  to rotate into a horizontal position.  is a transverse sectional view of adapter  with ball  of a horizontal mortar tube  in socket .  is a longitudinal sectional view taken perpendicular to . As best seen in , a portion of adapter  adjacent to socket  is removed to accommodate the horizontal position of tube . Removing a portion of adapter  creates a lateral opening  in which mortar tube  may be horizontally disposed. To secure the mortar horizontally, a dome-shaped cap  with an opening  therein may be placed over ball  and secured in socket  using, for example, a retaining clip or ring.","Other weapons may be used with adapter  by inserting a suitable pintle adapter  () into socket  and mounting the direct fire weapon to the pintle adapter. Some exemplary weapons that may be used with adapter  and pintle adapter  are machine guns, grenade launchers, and recoilless rifles.","In another embodiment of the invention, vehicle  may include a trailer hitch receiver, also known as a \u201cbumper pull\u201d hitch. A trailer hitch receiver is fixed to frame  of vehicle  in a known manner, either at the rear or the front. The receiver generally includes square tubing that is oriented horizontally with respect to vehicle . Various embodiments of adapter  may be disposed in the trailer hitch receiver to enable firing of mortar tube  and other weapons.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 7A-C","FIGS. 15A-C","FIGS. 12A and 12B"],"b":["72","76","40","76","78","39","34","42","40","77","39","79","40","76"]},"In another embodiment of the invention, a fifth wheel towing hitch system may be mounted on vehicle , for example, on cargo bed . The apparatus and methods for mounting fifth wheel towing hitch systems on cargo beds are well known.  is a schematic top view of a fifth wheel hitch system  having a horse shoe shaped plate .  is a sectional view taken along the line B-B of . A mortar mount adapter  is disposed in the king pin opening . Ball  of mortar tube  is disposed in a socket  of mortar mount adapter .","The exterior configuration of adapter  is the same or substantially the same as the exterior configuration of a standard king pin. The upper end of adapter  includes a flanged portion  having an outer diameter that is greater than the king pin opening . A socket  for receiving ball  is formed in the upper end of adapter . The shank  includes a reduced thickness portion . The securing mechanism of the fifth wheel system, such as jaws , engage reduced thickness portion  of shank  to secure mortar mount adapter  in hitch system . Mortar mount adapter  may rotate in king pin opening .","A longitudinal through hole  () may be formed in adapter  to enable debris to collect or migrate away from contact surfaces in socket . Socket  may include a tapered or conical surface  adjacent a spherical surface . Socket  may have other geometric configurations. For example, socket  may have the configuration of socket  shown in  or of socket  shown in . Adapter  may also be used in gooseneck socket .","While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 7B"],"b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 12A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 12A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 7A-C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 15A","FIGS. 12A and 12B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 15B","FIG. 15A"],"b":["15","15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 15C","FIG. 15A"],"b":["15","15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 16A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 16A"],"b":["16","16"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
