---
title: Mechanism to initiate calls between browsers without predefined call signaling protocol
abstract: An apparatus comprising a processor configured to receive an instruction to place a call to a remote user, load a communications application, wherein the communications application comprises an isolated security context, request a list of one or more supported communications protocols from a server, receive the list of one or more supported communications protocols from the server, select a protocol from the list of one or more supported communications protocols, load the selected communications protocol in the isolated security context, and initiate the call through the communications application with the remote server using the selected communications protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009741&OS=09009741&RS=09009741
owner: Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
number: 09009741
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130204
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","REFERENCE TO A MICROFICHE APPENDIX","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Not applicable.","Not applicable.","Not applicable.","Multimedia calls and teleconferences, e.g., video calls, video chats, and Peer to Peer (P2P) file sharing sessions, using web applications, e.g., web browsers, are increasing in popularity. Web applications may initiate calls to each other based on World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Real Time Communications (WebRTC) Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) using the same Call Signaling Protocol (CSP) without difficulty. However, a plurality of non-standardized CSP protocols exist and, consequently, some web applications may attempt WebRTC using conflicting CSPs, e.g., WebRTC Offer\/Answer Protocol (ROAP), WebSocket (WS), Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)\/Jingle, Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), H.323, Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP), or CSPs specific to the communications web site. Conflicting CSPs typically results in an inability to engage in WebRTC communications.","As a result, applications with conflicting CSPs cannot initiate calls unless a previously agreed upon CSP is used for the call, which may be problematic in a number of circumstances. A WebRTC communications initiator (\u201ccaller\u201d) may generally ensure CSP interoperability by using a CSP provided by a WebRTC communications recipient (\u201ccallee\u201d) to call the callee. However, this may lead to phishing attacks in open web, since using a callee CSP may place the entire browser under the control of the callee web application and may render it difficult for the caller's web browser to enforce security norms. In a phishing context, a callee web application asks a caller to log into an XMPP server using the caller's Jabber Identifier (JID) and password. In a non-trustworthiness context, a government agency caller wants to alert a plurality of callees regarding an imminent natural disaster or other emergency. In such cases, the callees may be willing to use the CSP of the callers, but not vice versa.","Browser negotiation of CSPs using standard names, e.g., Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) or interface specifications, may not be desired for a variety of reasons. For example, standard names may not be desired because they require developing standard protocols, and developing standard protocols may take years to develop. Further, standard names may require extensive interoperability testing, namely, N\u00d7N pairwise coordinated number of tests, to verify functionality, and may ultimately only ensure interoperability to the extent of the tested cases. Consequently, an alternate solution may be preferred.","In one aspect, the disclosure includes an apparatus comprising a processor configured to receive an instruction to place a call to a remote user, load a communications application, wherein the communications application comprises an isolated security context, request a list of one or more supported communications protocols from a server, receive the list of one or more supported communications protocols from the server, select a protocol from the list of one or more supported communications protocols, load the selected communications protocol in the isolated security context, and initiate the call through the communications application with the remote server using the selected communications protocol.","In another aspect, the disclosure includes a computer program product comprising computer executable instructions stored on a non-transitory medium that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform the following load a communications application in a web browser, send a request for a supported communications protocol list to a site, receive the supported communications protocol list from the site, wherein the supported communications protocol list contains a communications protocol, send a request for a library supporting the communications protocol to the site, receive the library supporting the communications protocol from the site, send a communications offer encoded according to the communications protocol, and receive an answer encoded according to the communications protocol.","In yet another aspect, the disclosure includes a method for initiating calls between browsers without predefined CSPs, comprising implementing a CSP state machine at a first browser, requesting a CSP library for a CSP from a first server, receiving and loading the CSP library, sending an offer to a second server, wherein the offer is encoded according to the CSP, receiving an answer from the second server, wherein the answer is encoded according to the CSP, and transmitting data to a second browser according to the CSP, wherein the data comprises voice data, video data, or both.","These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.","It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below, the disclosed systems and\/or methods may be implemented using any number of techniques, whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations, drawings, and techniques illustrated below, including the exemplary designs and implementations illustrated and described herein, but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.","The disclosure describes systems and methods to guarantee the WebRTC applications from different sites use an interoperable CSP without the existence of any standard CSP. The disclosure describes such mechanisms and protocols to negotiate CSP JavaScript code and execute it in isolated security contexts such that interoperability is guaranteed with controlled security. Stated another way, the disclosure describes an architecture to separate a CSP layer, resource, or module from the rest of a WebRTC application, use the CSP layer, resource, or module to implement a CSP state machine in JavaScript, and sanction data transmissions between web applications. Using the disclosed systems and methods may provide, inter alia, reduced costs of interoperability tests, since only N independent tests are needed for N CSP implementations (rather than N\u00d7N pairwise coordinated tests, where N is a whole number); increased interoperability, since the applications may use identical CSP JavaScript code rather than different implementations of the same CSP; increased security through enforced and controlled mechanisms; and flexibility, since the modular design permits CSP code to be changed without impacting other parts of web applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","100","102","104","100","100","110","112","110","100","100","110","112","110","100","112","112","112","112","102","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["202","204","202","204","102","202","204","205","206","112","207","209","208","210","209","100","205","100","206","205","206","202","204","211","212","205","206","211","213","215","217","212","214","216","218","213","214","202","204","217","218","215","216","217","218","209","210","217","218","213","214","215","216","207","208","211","212","213","214","215","216","217","218","213","214","204","213","214","205","206","211","212","215","216","213","214","207","208","213","214","215","216"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","302","301","100","303","208","212","304","305","204","305","306","305","308","305","214","310","312","304"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["4","4","401","403","100","405","407","205","206","409","411","202","204","409","411","405","407","404","401","405","409","406","408","405","409","410","403","407","411","412","414","407","411","404","408","410","412"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","418","403","405","411","411","419","420","411","409","422","409","411","411","424"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4C","b":["401","403","428","405","409","430","409","411","407","432","407","403","434","436","403","407","407","438","411","411","409","440","411","405","442","401","405","403","444","446","448","401","403"]},"WebRTC capable devices, such video teleconferencing systems and\/or other communications systems discussed herein, may operate in a telecommunications system and may be required to wirelessly transmit and receive multiple types of data substantially simultaneously. Communications devices, e.g., mobile smartphones, may be equipped with a plurality of antennas that may operate as transmitters and\/or receivers (or transceivers) to transmit and receive data. The communications devices' antennas may wirelessly communicate with a network by transmitting and\/or receiving data over specified frequencies.  is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a communications device , e.g., a user device  of . Communications device  may comprise a two-way wireless communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. In some aspects, voice communication capabilities are optional. The communications device  generally has the capability to communicate with other computer systems on the Internet. Depending on the exact functionality provided, the communications device  may be referred to as a data messaging device, a cellular telephone, a wireless Internet appliance, a wireless device, a smart phone, a mobile device, and\/or a data communication device, as example.","Communications device  may comprise a processor  (which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU) that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage , read only memory (ROM) , and random access memory (RAM) . The processor  may be implemented as one or more CPU chips, one or more cores (e.g., a multi-core processor), or may be part of one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) and\/or Digital Signal Processors (DSPs). The processor  may be configured to implement any of the schemes described herein, and may be implemented using hardware, software, firmware, or combinations thereof.","The secondary storage  may be comprised of one or more solid state drives, disk drives, and\/or other memory types and is used for non-volatile storage of data and as an over-flow data storage device if RAM  is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage  may be used to store programs that are loaded into RAM  when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM  may be used to store instructions and perhaps data that are read during program execution. ROM  may be a non-volatile memory device may have a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM  may be used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM  and RAM  may be faster than to secondary storage .","The communications device  may communicate data (e.g., packets) wirelessly with a network via a network access point . As such, the communications device  may comprise a receiver (Rx) , which may be configured for receiving data (e.g. wireless packets or frames) from other components. The receiver  may be coupled to the processor , which may be configured to process the data and determine to which components the data is to be sent. The communications device  may also comprise a transmitter (Tx)  coupled to the processor  and configured for transmitting data to other components, for example by using protocols such as IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), or similar wireless protocols. The receiver  and transmitter  may be coupled to a plurality of antennas , which may be configured to receive and transmit wireless Radio Frequency (RF) signals. In some embodiments, Tx  and Rx  may be replaced by a transceiver comprising the functionality of both Tx  and Rx .","The communications device  may also comprise a display  coupled to the processor , that displays output thereof to a user. In some embodiments, display  is a display station remote from the communications device . The communications device  and the display  may be configured to display representations of data to a user. The device display  may comprise a Color Super Twisted Nematic (CSTN) display, a Thin Film Transistor (TFT) display, a Thin Film Diode (TFD) display, an Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) display, an active-matrix OLED display, or any other display screen. The display  may display in color or monochrome and may be equipped with a touch sensor based on resistive and\/or capacitive technologies.","The communications device  may further comprise an input device  coupled to the processor , which may allow the user to input commands to the communications device . In the case that the display device  comprises a touch sensor, the display device  may also be considered the input device . In addition to and\/or in the alternative, an input device  may comprise a mouse, trackball, built-in keyboard, external keyboard, and\/or any other device that a user may employ to interact with the communications device . In the context of multimedia communications, e.g., video teleconferencing, input device  may be a camera.","At least one embodiment is disclosed and variations, combinations, and\/or modifications of the embodiment(s) and\/or features of the embodiment(s) made by a person having ordinary skill in the art are within the scope of the disclosure. Alternative embodiments that result from combining, integrating, and\/or omitting features of the embodiment(s) are also within the scope of the disclosure. Where numerical ranges or limitations are expressly stated, such express ranges or limitations should be understood to include iterative ranges or limitations of like magnitude falling within the expressly stated ranges or limitations (e.g., from about 1 to about 10 includes, 2, 3, 4, etc.; greater than 0.10 includes 0.11, 0.12, 0.13, etc.). For example, whenever a numerical range with a lower limit, R, and an upper limit, R, is disclosed, any number falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular, the following numbers within the range are specifically disclosed: R=R+k*(R\u2212R), wherein k is a variable ranging from 1 percent to 100 percent with a 1 percent increment, i.e., k is 1 percent, 2 percent, 3 percent, 4 percent, 5 percent, . . . 50 percent, 51 percent, 52 percent, . . . , 95 percent, 96 percent, 97 percent, 98 percent, 99 percent, or 100 percent. Moreover, any numerical range defined by two R numbers as defined in the above is also specifically disclosed. The use of the term about means\u00b110% of the subsequent number, unless otherwise stated. Use of the term \u201coptionally\u201d with respect to any element of a claim means that the element is required, or alternatively, the element is not required, both alternatives being within the scope of the claim. Use of broader terms such as comprises, includes, and having should be understood to provide support for narrower terms such as consisting of, consisting essentially of, and comprised substantially of. All documents described herein are incorporated herein by reference.","While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure, it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods might be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example, the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted, or not implemented.","In addition, techniques, systems, subsystems, and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems, modules, techniques, or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface, device, or intermediate component whether electrically, mechanically, or otherwise. Other examples of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of this disclosure, reference is now made to the following brief description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings and detailed description, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
