---
title: Systems and methods providing master data management statistics
abstract: According to some embodiments, a plurality of records may be received over a period of time from a plurality of sources. As the records are received during the period of time, master data management may be performed to match at least some records from different sources with each other. A statistics window within the period of time may be determined, and at least one master data management statistics value may be calculated based on the master data management that was performed during the statistics window. The calculated master data management statistics value may then be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336245&OS=09336245&RS=09336245
owner: SAP SE
number: 09336245
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20131224
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Some embodiments relate to master data management. More specifically, some embodiments provide systems and methods for providing mast data management statistics.","A business or enterprise may store information about various items in the form of electronic records. For example, a company might have an employee database where each row in the database represents a record containing information about a particular employee (e.g., the employee's name, date of hire, and salary). Moreover, different electronic records may actually be related to a single item. For example, a human resources database and a sales representative database might both contain records about the same employee. In some cases, it may be desirable to consolidate multiple records to create a single data store that contains a single electronic record for each item represented in the database. Such a goal might be associated with, for example, an automated master data management application and\/or a data steward that attempt to automatically recognize or match these records to create a correct \u201cmaster\u201d data store. Advantages associated with creating such a master data store might include increased efficiency through the enterprise and\/or improved customer service. For example, when a sales representative retrieves a customer record, the master data store might include contact information that would have been missing if information from multiple sources were not correctly matched and merged.","The consolidation process in a master data management program can be a relatively time consuming and\/or expensive task, especially when a substantial number of records (e.g., millions of records) and\/or input data sources are involved. It can be difficult, however, to determine the advantages created by the master data management program. For example, an enterprise might be unsure if it should devote the employee hours and\/or costs associated with a master data management program without understanding the benefits it will provide.","Accordingly, methods and mechanisms for accurately and efficiently demonstrating the results of a master data management program may be desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","110","110","110"]},"A master data management platform  may receive input records from the various data stores . For example, the master data management platform  might import the input records from a remote data store  via HyperText Transport Protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d) communication or any other type of data exchange. The master data management platform  and\/or data stores  might be associated with, for example, Personal Computers (\u201cPCs\u201d), servers, and\/or mobile devices.","The master data management platform  may consolidate and\/or merge the input records received from the data stores  and store master records into a master data store  in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example, a human resources database and a sales representative database might both contain records about the same employee. In this case, the master data management platform  might automatically consolidate the multiple records to create a single master record for that employee (and the master record might include information from both systems). Such a goal might be associated with, for example, a master data management program.","According to some embodiments, a consolidation of records in master data management is associated with a two phase process of (i) identifying potential duplicates and then (ii) merging the records into a single best representative instance of the record. Note that large sets of data might be extracted from multiple legacy systems into the master data management platform  and include some obvious, straight forward duplicates that need to (and can be) resolved and merged immediately after the data is imported into the master data management platform . In many cases, the duplicate detection will be straight forward, such as when it is based on a well defined identifier that can't be interpreted in ambiguous ways. Examples of such identifiers include a Social Security Number for to identify individuals or a Global Trade Item Number (\u201cGTIN\u201d) to detect duplicate materials.","In some cases, however, duplicate records may need to be merged into a single physical record, but conflicting data values exist among the different records. For example, one record might indicate a home address of \u201c123 Main Street\u201d while another record indicates a home address of \u201c12 Main Street.\u201d A rule based mechanism may facilitate consolidation in any conflict situation, and this logic may comprise a set of rules that automate and streamline the consolidation process in master data management. After the records are merged, an administrator or data steward may interact with a Graphical User Interface  to create displays and\/or reports in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.","Note that  represents a logical architecture according to some embodiments, and actual implementations may include more or different components arranged in other manners. Moreover, each system described herein may be implemented by any number of devices in communication via any number of other public and\/or private networks. Two or more of devices of may be located remote from one another and may communicate with one another via any known manner of network(s) and\/or a dedicated connection. Further, each device may comprise any number of hardware and\/or software elements suitable to provide the functions described herein as well as any other functions. Other topologies may be used in conjunction with other embodiments.","All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored on one or more computer-readable media. Such media may include, for example, a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, a DVD-ROM, a Zip\u00ae disk, magnetic tape, and solid state Random Access Memory (RAM) or Read Only Memory (ROM) storage units. Embodiments are therefore not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","The master data management platform  may operate in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example,  is a flow diagram of a process  according to some embodiments. Note that all processes described herein may be executed by any combination of hardware and\/or software. The processes may be embodied in program code stored on a tangible medium and executable by a computer to provide the functions described herein. Further note that the flow charts described herein do not imply a fixed order to the steps, and embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in any order that is practicable.","At S, a plurality of input records may be received over a period of time from a plurality of sources. For example, batches of record might be received from enterprise resource planning system and a customer relationship management system on a periodic basis.","At S, master data management may be performed as the records are received (i.e., during the period of time) to match at least some records from different sources with each other. For example, fields within each record might be used to determine that two slightly different records actually refer to the same \u201creal word\u201d object (e.g., purchase order).","At S, a statistics \u201cwindow\u201d within the period of time may be determined. For example, the statistics window may be associated with a statistics start date and a statistics end date. According to some embodiments, the statistics start date and the statistics end date are defined by a data steward. Other examples of a statistics window might include \u201cfrom Jan. 1, 2010 to the present\u201d and \u201cover the last four months.\u201d","At S, at least one master data management statistics value may be calculated based on the master data management that was performed during the statistics window. Note that the calculated master data management statistics value might not be based on master data management that was performed before a statistics start date or after a statistics end date.","According to some embodiments, the calculated master data management statistics value is associated with records \u201cconsumed\u201d by another application. Such a value might help, for example, demonstrate to a budget planner how useful a master data management program is to an enterprise (e.g., because the records improved by the program are frequently being used by other applications within the enterprise). As other examples, the calculated master data management statistics value might be associated with source based record distribution, region based record distribution, record cleansing data, record matching data, record duplication data, best record calculations, and\/or a record refinement rate.","At S, the calculated master data management statistics value may be displayed. According to some embodiments, the calculated master data management statistics value is displayed to a data steward both as a numerical value and as a graphical representation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["300","300","310","300","310","300","310","300","340","350","300","310","300","370","380"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","410","420","400","430","440","440","400","370","380","470","480"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","510","500","500","570","580","570","580"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","610","620","600","670","680","670","680"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","710","720","730","700","740","750","700","770","780","770","780"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","810","800","870","880","870","880"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","910","970","980","970","980"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1000","1000","1000","1010","1020","1020","1000","1040","1050"]},"The processor  communicates with a storage device . The storage device  may comprise any appropriate information storage device, including combinations of magnetic storage devices (e.g., a hard disk drive), optical storage devices, and\/or semiconductor memory devices. The storage device  stores a program  and\/or master data management statistics engine application  for controlling the processor . The processor  performs instructions of the programs , , and thereby operates in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example, the processor  may receive a plurality of records over a period of time from a plurality of sources. As the records are received during the period of time, master data management may be performed by the processor  to match at least some records from different sources with each other. A statistics window within the period of time may be determined by the processor , and at least one master data management statistics value may be calculated by the processor based on the master data management that was performed during the statistics window. The calculated master data management statistics value may then be displayed by the processor .","The programs ,  may be stored in a compressed, uncompiled and\/or encrypted format. The programs ,  may furthermore include other program elements, such as an operating system, a database management system, and\/or device drivers used by the processor  to interface with peripheral devices.","As used herein, information may be \u201creceived\u201d by or \u201ctransmitted\u201d to, for example: (i) the master data management apparatus  from another device; or (ii) a software application or module within the master data management apparatus  from another software application, module, or any other source.","In some embodiments (such as shown in ), the storage device  stores master data management information and a consumption database  (described with respect to ). One example of a consumption database  that may be used in connection with the master data management apparatus  will now be described in detail with respect to . Note that the databases described herein are examples, and additional and\/or different information may be stored therein. Moreover, various databases might be split or combined in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.","Referring to , a table is shown that represents the consumption database  that may be stored at the master data management apparatus  according to some embodiments. The table may include, for example, entries identifying records that have been consumed by other applications. The table may also define fields , , ,  for each of the entries. The fields , , ,  may, according to some embodiments, specify: a consumption identifier , an application , a date , and a number of records retrieved . The information in the consumption database  may be automatically created and updated, for example, based on actions performed by other applications.","The consumption identifier  may be, for example, an alphanumeric code associated with a particular use of information in a master data database. The application  may be the name of the program or platform that requested the data and the date  may indicate when the request for data was made or executed. The number of retrieved records  may indicate how many records were provided to the application  as a result of the request. The date  and number of retrieved records  may be used, for example, to demonstrate how useful a master data program is to various entities within an enterprise (that is, the entities associated with the applications ).","The following illustrates various additional embodiments and do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments, and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further, although the following embodiments are briefly described for clarity, those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes, if necessary, to the above-described apparatus and methods to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.","Although embodiments have been described with respect to particular types of data, note that embodiments may be associated with other types of information. For example, financial information and\/or health data records may be processed in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. Similarly, while some embodiments have been described with respect to web-type browser displays,  illustrates master data consumption being displayed on a handheld device , such as a laptop, a tablet computer, or a smartphone, including a statistics start and end date , .","Embodiments have been described herein solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description that embodiments are not limited to those described, but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
