---
title: Systems and methods for widget rendering and sharing on a personal electronic device
abstract: Systems and methods for providing, sharing, storing and playing widgets and associated media content on a personal audiovisual device, such as a digital photo frame, are described. In one implementation, widgets may be selected by a user for rendering based on capabilities of a user's device, with the widgets then provided to the device for playback. Digital content such as audio files, images, and/or video may be rendered in conjunction with playback of the widget. Widgets may be shared between users so as to facilitate sharing of media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344522&OS=09344522&RS=09344522
owner: BBY SOLUTIONS, INC.
number: 09344522
owner_city: Richfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130717
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS","Overview of System of Personalized CHUMBY\u2122 Devices","Example System Components","System Operation","Client-Server Communication Protocol","CHUMBY\u2122 Security Protocol","Distribution of Electronic Greetings Among CHUMBY\u2122 Devices","Overview of CHUMBY\u2122 Cloud Services for CHUMBY\u2122-Enabled Clients","Additional Details of Embodiments"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/715,331, filed Mar. 1, 2010, which is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/156,418, entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR WIDGET SHARING AMONG NETWORKED ELECTRONIC DEVICES, filed on Feb. 27, 2009, to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/156,432, entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RENDERING CONTENT ON A NETWORKED ELECTRONIC DEVICE THROUGH EXECUTION OF USER-DEFINED WIDGETS, filed on Feb. 27, 2009, and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/156,436, entitled NETWORKED ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR EXECUTING USER-DEFINED WIDGET SEQUENCES, filed on Feb. 27, 2009. In addition, this application is a continuation-in-part of and claims priority to co-pending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11\/845,018, entitled CONFIGURABLE PERSONAL AUDIOVISUAL DEVICE FOR USE IN NETWORKED APPLICATION SHARING SYSTEM, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/805,830, entitled CONFIGURABLE PERSONAL AUDIOVISUAL DEVICE FOR USE IN NETWORKED APPLICATION SHARING SYSTEM, to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/823,491, entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TRANSFERRING ELECTRONIC CONTENT TO NETWORKED PERSONAL AUDIOVISUAL DEVICES, to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/823,493, entitled NETWORKED PERSONAL AUDIOVISUAL DEVICE HAVING FLEXIBLE HOUSING, to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/823,496, entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATICALLY UPDATING THE SOFTWARE OF A NETWORKED PERSONAL AUDIOVISUAL DEVICE, to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/945,900, entitled REGISTRATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PERSONALIZED PORTABLE DEVICES, and to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/869,297, entitled SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR LOCATION, MOTION, AND CONTACT DETECTION AND TRACKING IN A NETWORKED AUDIOVISUAL DEVICE. The content of each of these applications is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.","The present invention is directed generally to the field of personal electronic devices and downloadable applications for rendering and sharing thereon. More specifically, but not exclusively, the invention relates to systems and methods for selecting, downloading, rendering and sharing widgets on personal electronic devices such as digital photo frames.","It is well known that broadband Internet connectivity is becoming substantially more pervasive among consumers as a result of competition among service providers utilizing various different technologies, such as cable, digital subscriber line (DSL), wireless networks, and satellite. In many households personal computers (PCs) constitute the primary users of bandwidth furnished by these broadband connections. In order to facilitate sharing of the Internet connection among PCs in a given household, a variety of \u201cwired\u201d and \u201cwireless\u201d home networking technologies have been utilized.","As a result of the impracticality of installing Ethernet cable throughout a residence, RF-based wireless networking technology is becoming increasingly commonplace among consumers. Although systems based upon the 802.11b, or \u201cWi-Fi\u201d, wireless networking standard may currently be the most pervasive, versions of the 802.11 standard offering increased bandwidth have been introduced and yet higher-bandwidth approaches have been proposed. In addition, future wireless networks based on technologies such as Wi-Max, LTE and others will likely substantially increase available bandwidth.","Increased bandwidth available to the home has increased the usage of a number of different services, such as Internet-based delivery of digital audio, video and graphic content. However, since many of these services are facilitated by a desktop or notebook PC capable of communication over a broadband Internet connection, users are forced to remain physically close to their respective computers in order to utilize these services. Although other strategies to leverage the availability of broadband Internet connectivity within the home are currently being developed, many of these approaches involve creation of a relatively powerful, costly centralized communications \u201chub\u201d (e.g., a PC with enhanced media capabilities, or a multi-purpose cable set-top box). Unfortunately, this typically requires either the purchase of an expensive hardware device or extended subscription plan, and constrains the extent to which Internet-enabled entertainment or other services are enjoyed outside of the immediate vicinity of the centralized hub device.","Accordingly, there is a need in the art for new technologies for delivering content to user devices such as personal electronic devices.","The present invention is directed generally towards systems and methods for providing, sharing, sending, receiving and playing widgets in a personal electronics device. I one exemplary embodiment, a digital photo frame and associated service provider system may be provided to allow a user to render digital content in conjunction with one or more widgets, as well as send digital content, in conjunction with widgets, to other associated users of the system.","Various additional aspects of the present invention are further described below in conjunction with the appended drawings.","Certain of the above-referenced copending applications describe a system comprised of a set of personalized audiovisual devices in Internet-based communication with a service provider. Such personalized audiovisual devices are commercially distributed under the trademark CHUMBY\u2122, and may also be referred to herein as \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 devices\u201d. During communication with the service provider, each CHUMBY\u2122 device periodically receives a set of application programs, or \u201cwidgets\u201d, which are sequentially executed by the CHUMBY\u2122 device after being received from the service provider or locally from a personal computer (e.g., via a USB connection). Since each CHUMBY\u2122 device is typically Internet-enabled, each may also be remotely configured and otherwise personalized via the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider through a Web browser executed by a remote terminal (e.g., a PC or wireless handset). Such personalization may include, for example, specifying the set of widgets provided to a given CHUMBY\u2122 device as well as their sequence and priority of execution.","As is described hereinafter, users may configure a CHUMBY\u2122 device via an interface provided by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider may \u201cdrag and drop\u201d icons representative of various widgets onto a rectangular or other portion of the interface representative of the screen of the CHUMBY\u2122 device being configured. Alternatively, a user may select textual and\/or graphical representations of widgets and select a button or other graphical representation of a user interface (UI) control to \u201cadd\u201d the widget to the CHUMBY\u2122 device being configured. In these ways the \u201clayout\u201d of the screen of the CHUMBY\u2122 device may be remotely configured by the owner of the device. Although each CHUMBY\u2122 device will preferably be capable of being configured in this manner, in certain embodiments each may also come \u201cloaded\u201d with a default set of widgets (e.g., an \u201calarm clock\u201d widget) disposed to be executed by the CHUMBY\u2122 device upon its registration with the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider. Once a CHUMBY\u2122 device has been configured (i.e., with either a \u201cdefault\u201d or user-specified configuration), it may execute the widgets defined by the configuration without user intervention. Alternatively, users may opt to \u201cstay\u201d on a given widget by explicitly instantiating the system interface on the device and selecting a \u201cstay\u201d UI control. If a user has explicitly selected a widget to \u201cstay\u201d, the sequential execution of widgets can be continued by terminating the \u201cstay\u201d command via the system interface. If a user interacts with a widget which presents user interface controls to the user through one of a number of alternative input methods, such as via a touchscreen or accelerometer, the currently active widget will continue to execute on the device until some timeout period expires following the cessation of user interaction with the widget.","The configuration of a CHUMBY\u2122 device may also specify the events or conditions under which the sequence of execution of widgets is to be altered or interrupted, and allows certain widgets to be accorded the highest available priority with respect to execution. For example, an \u201calarm clock\u201d widget could be granted such priority in order to ensure that its alarm function would not be prevented from being actuated at the scheduled time due to contemporaneous execution of another widget. In one embodiment the Web interface provided by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider is in the form of a \u201ctimeline\u201d enabling the sequence of execution of the widgets associated with a given CHUMBY\u2122 device to be controlled in an intuitive manner. In an exemplary implementation the timeline defines the order in which the widgets are to be played in a constantly repeating sequence; that is, the timeline is representative of the complete set of widgets played by a given CHUMBY\u2122 device as well as their relative order and duration of execution. However, certain widgets (e.g., the \u201calarm clock\u201d widget) can be specified to be actuated at a given time by appropriately setting the applicable configuration element of such widgets.","Although in exemplary embodiments it is not contemplated that more than a single \u201ccontent-related\u201d widget be operative at any given time, a system configuration widget may be utilized to run concurrently with each such content-related widget in order to, for example, control the relative priority of execution of such content-related widgets and system settings such as loudness, brightness, navigation, and the like.","In one embodiment CHUMBY\u2122 devices are each capable of wireless communication in accordance with an accepted wireless networking standard, such as the 802.11b or 802.11g standard. Accordingly, in homes or other environments containing one or more wireless access points, multiple CHUMBY\u2122 devices may be distributed throughout the coverage area of the access points. Alternatively, a CHUMBY\u2122 device may use a wired connection as a backup to, or in lieu of, a wireless connection to the extent convenient or necessary.","The interface presented by each CHUMBY\u2122 device may be changed in accordance with the nature of the widget currently being executed by the device. For example, a \u201cclock radio\u201d widget could be employed to produce audio and visual imagery consistent with a conventional alarm clock at an appointed time in the morning. In exemplary embodiments the clock radio widget would allow for the selection of a standard \u201cwake up\u201d chime or choice of several different audio programs. Later in the day the device interface could be devoted to a rotating selection of several standard information screens such as news headlines, local weather, sports scores, stock market updates, horoscope and the like.","Users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices may also optionally participate in a \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 Network\u201d along with other users by logging on to a Web site (e.g., www.chumby.com) hosted by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider. At this site (also referred to hereinafter as the \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 site\u201d) a user will be able to register with the CHUMBY\u2122 Network and access services enabling the basic capabilities of the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device. Basic capabilities may comprise, for example, the opportunity to send\/receive widgets and other content to\/from other CHUMBY\u2122 users, for improved personalization of the device's generic information features, more detailed alarm-setting capabilities, and better selection and configuration of audio capabilities.","Registration with the CHUMBY\u2122 Network may enable members of the Network to access a wide array of widgets. It is contemplated that certain of such widgets would be developed by the entity operating the CHUMBY\u2122 Network while other widgets would be developed by independent developers. In addition, members of the \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 Network would also be able to communicate with the CHUMBY\u2122 devices of other members, provided that permission for such communication has been authorized by the other members. Such communication could entail, for example, the sending of a widget and corresponding data from the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider to a member of the CHUMBY\u2122 Network (the \u201creceiving member\u201d) in response to a request sent to the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider by another member (the \u201csending member\u201d). For example, a sending member could, after receiving permission from a receiving member, request the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider to send a \u201cphoto-viewer\u201d widget to the receiving member. In addition, the sending member could specify that a link be established between the photo-viewer widget and pictures uploaded by the sending member to the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider. In this way the receiving member could, without any effort other than providing authorization to the sending member, enable their CHUMBY\u2122 device to essentially automatically receive and display a sequence of photos provided by the sending member. Similarly, while traveling a sending member could send a personalized \u201cwake up\u201d message to the CHUMBY\u2122 device of a consenting receiving member. Finally, a sending member could send widgets to a group of receiving members included on a \u201cbuddy list\u201d of the sending member, which could be established after the receipt of suitable permissions from those proposed to be included on the list.","In an exemplary embodiment members of the CHUMBY\u2122 Network are enabled to completely configure, through any Web browser, their respective CHUMBY\u2122 devices by specifying a set of \u201cpremium\u201d widget programs or content to play or be shown rotationally (or in some other user-defined sequence) on their respective CHUMBY\u2122 devices. Such premium widgets and content may include, for example, webcam shots, RSS readers, filtered news reports, personalized stock performance data, short animations or movies, podcasts or audio files to function as the audio sources for alarms or reminders scheduled to be triggered at different times throughout the day.","It is noted that the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","106","110","116","110","116","102","102","106","106","106","102"]},"Referring again to , the system  also includes a plurality of user computers  disposed for communication with the service provider  via an access network (not shown) and the Internet . Each user computer  executes a Web browser  capable of displaying Web pages generated by the service provider  through which a user may configure one or more CHUMBY\u2122 personal audiovisual devices . As mentioned above, such configuration may include, for example, specifying a set of widgets to be sent to a particular device  and their sequence of execution, adjusting audio or visual parameters relating to such execution, defining and managing a user's CHUMBY\u2122 network (including, for example, defining a \u201cbuddy list\u201d comprised of other CHUMBY\u2122 users with respect to which the device  is permitted to communicate), and defining the layout or other aspects of the user interface presented through the screen of the device . To this end a given Web browser  may, when in communication with the service provider , present a rectangular configuration window which displays the widgets currently configured to \u201cplay\u201d within the named \u201cchannel\u201d. By \u201cdragging and dropping\u201d iconic representations of widgets or content files into such a configuration window, a user may personalize the behavior and user interface presented by the corresponding CHUMBY\u2122 device . Alternatively, a user may select textual and\/or graphical representations of widgets and select a button or other graphical representation of a user interface control to \u201cadd\u201d the widget to the CHUMBY\u2122 device being configured. Moreover, users may access the service provider  via a Web browser  for the purpose of sending widgets or other information to other users for execution or display by their respective CHUMBY\u2122 devices . In one embodiment the service provider  maintains a record of the permissions granted among users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices in order to determine which users are authorized to provide, via the service provider , a given user with widgets, messages or other information, and vice-versa. Such permissions may be granted or withdrawn by a given user via appropriate pages presented by a Web browser  in communication with the service provider .","In the exemplary embodiment a configuration window may be utilized to configure one or more CHUMBY\u2122 devices  consistent with the permissions granted by the users of such devices . In addition, a user of a given CHUMBY\u2122 device  may elect to have the interface of the device  \u201cmirror\u201d or otherwise replicate that of another device  subject to the requisite permissions being granted. Similarly, one or more CHUMBY\u2122 devices  may be configured to mirror the interface for a \u201cvirtual\u201d CHUMBY\u2122 device (or vice-versa) defined via a configuration window.","Different users of a given CHUMBY\u2122 device  may be accorded different roles or privileges in configuring the device . For example, user-granted supervisory privileges could be given the authority to filter or monitor the widgets or content sent to the CHUMBY\u2122 device . This would enable, for example, parents to manage and\/or monitor the widgets and content executed and displayed by the one or more CHUMBY\u2122 devices  used by their children. Moreover, administrators of the system  would typically possess an elevated level of privilege relative to users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices  within the system . Also, if a specific widget performs functions requiring communication with a web site controlled by a third party in order to access content, the developer of the widget may create a hierarchical user model to regulate such access (and perhaps the functions of the widget).","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates an exemplary distribution of CHUMBY\u2122 devices  throughout a residence  or other building having a number of rooms . In the embodiment of , each CHUMBY\u2122 device  is equipped with wireless transceiver (e.g., a Wi-Fi transceiver) to facilitate communication with one or more access points . Each access point is interconnected with an access network  by way of, for example, a local area network, thereby enabling Internet-based communication to be established between the service provider  and the devices within the residence .","Turning now to , a block diagrammatic representation is provided of the principal components of an embodiment of a CHUMBY\u2122 device of the present invention. As shown, the device includes a central processing unit (CPU) , memory including volatile (e.g., SDRAM)  and non-volatile memory  (e.g., flash memory), an audio interface , a wireless communications interface , and a sensor interface . In an exemplary implementation the CPU  comprises a microprocessor (e.g., based upon an ARM core) configured to run a Linux kernel and having attendant capabilities for graphics rendering. The device may or may not include a battery backup unit, which serves to preserve real-time information in the event of a power outage, and may also serve as a primary power source if the user desires untethered operation. The battery may or may not be rechargeable. The operating system is made aware of the power status and actively configures the CHUMBY\u2122 device and the running widget to either save power or modify the user interface consistent with untethered operation.","The device may or may not include a Security Module (not shown) If included, the Security Module serves to store secrets and compute authentication algorithms in a fashion that fully isolates core security routines from otherwise unsecured code running on CPU . The secret storage and authentication capability may or may not be used by the client-server communication protocol to enable authenticated and encrypted communication capabilities for, among other things, financial transactions. The Security Module is initialized in such a way that there is no default mapping of the secrets contained within the module versus the identity of the hardware of the user. Furthermore, the secrets are revocable and a routine may exist for generating new secrets based upon a master secret that is never associated with a specific user's profile. This enables opt-in policies for privacy and a limited ability to revoke identity information, barring forensic network analysis, thereby enabling anonymity as well. The anonymous trust network can be extended with a variety of client-server protocols to enable a wide range of anonymous transactions, including but not limited to cash and content transactions.","As shown, software comprising widgets  or other applications received from the service provider  are stored in memory  and loaded into SDRAM  or non-volatile memory  for execution by the CPU . In one embodiment widgets are downloaded from the service provider  to CHUMBY\u2122 devices in the format of a \u201cAdobe Flash\u201d file, also referred to as a \u201cFlash movie\u201d. As is known by those skilled in the art, Flash movies are usually accorded a \u201c.swf\u201d file extension and may be played by a Flash Player developed and distributed by Adobe Systems. Accordingly, the memory  also includes a Flash Player  as well as a copy of the operating system  executed by the CPU . In other embodiments widgets may be developed in accordance with other formats and played by players compatible with such other formats.","In the exemplary embodiment widgets are not \u201cpermanently\u201d stored in memory  of CHUMBY\u2122 devices. Rather, widgets are executed by the CPU and then either discarded or cached in temporary memory for future use. This enables widgets to be \u201cpushed\u201d from the service provider  as necessary to support the sequence of widget execution specified for each CHUMBY\u2122 device. That is, the service provider  may operate to provide a \u201cstream\u201d of widgets to each CHUMBY\u2122 device, where the widgets within each such stream are temporarily cached within the memory of the applicable CHUMBY\u2122 device until their execution. This enables the service provider  and\/or the creator of each widget program to maintain a degree of control over the content and behavior of each widget program, since each such program is typically not permanently downloaded (thereby facilitating modification) but is rather temporarily cached and erased after some predetermined time has passed or a memory use threshold has been reached.","The CHUMBY\u2122 device also includes a liquid crystal display (LCD)  controlled by an LCD controller , which may or may not be integrated into the CPU . The display  visually renders iconic representations of the widget programs stored within the CHUMBY\u2122 device and images generated in connection with the execution of such widgets by the CPU . In an exemplary implementation a touchscreen  overlays the LCD  and is responsive to a touchscreen controller . In one embodiment a user may induce the CHUMBY\u2122 device to enter a \u201ccontrol panel mode\u201d by touching the a sensor such as the squeeze sensor (not shown in ), touchscreen  or other sensor device. In an exemplary embodiment, widgets and the system control panel may present the user with different \u201cuser interface\u201d, or \u201cUI\u201d, elements to enable the user to interact with the widget\/system control panel. These UI elements may include, but are not limited to, buttons, scroll bars, drop down combo boxes and menus. When a user touches the screen to interact with one of these UI elements, the touchscreen controller  informs the CPU  that the touchscreen has been touched at a specific location and that location is converted by the CPU  to a UI control actuation event based on the configuration of the currently displayed widget  or system control panel screen (not shown in ). In alternate implementations the LCD  and touchscreen  may comprise an integral device controlled by an integrated controller.","Turning to , there is shown an exemplary user interface  generated by the LCD  during operation of the CHUMBY\u2122 device in control panel mode. As shown, the interface  defines an mute button , a channel button , a night button , a music button , a settings button , a clock button , a delete button , a rate button , a send button , a stay button , a right arrow button , a left arrow button , and a hide control panel mode button . Selection of the mute button  toggles the mute state of the CHUMBY\u2122 device. Selection of the channel button  instantiates another control panel screen which enables users to view the content of all of their CHUMBY\u2122 \u201cchannels\u201d and\/or select a new \u201cchannel\u201d to be loaded and run on the CHUMBY\u2122 device. A \u201cchannel\u201d is a collection of widgets configured by a user in a named grouping via an interaction between a page rendered on a web browser  and the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider, such collection of widgets generally running on the CHUMBY\u2122 device in a sequential, repetitive fashion.","Selection of the night button  places the CHUMBY\u2122 device into a \u201cnight mode\u201d in which the screen is dimmed and a low intensity clock is displayed. Selection of the music button  instantiates another control panel screen which enables the user to interact with and control various continuous music sources, such as, for example, MP3 players, storage devices, and music services. Such sources may reside on either the local network or on the Internet. Selection of the settings button  instantiates another control panel screen which enables the user to configure various CHUMBY\u2122 device settings, such as, for example, wireless network setup, speaker volume and touchscreen calibration. Selection of the clock button  instantiates another control panel screen which enables the user to configure the time, date and alarm functions of CHUMBY\u2122 device. Selection of the delete button  deletes the currently displayed widget to be deleted, with user confirmation, from the current \u201cchannel\u201d. Selection of the rate button  instantiates another control panel screen which enables the user to provide a rating on a fixed scale for the currently displayed widget. Selection of the send button icon  instantiates another control panel screen which displays a personalized list of other users of CHUMBY\u2122 users to which it may be desired to send widgets or otherwise communicate. Selection of the stay button  toggles the \u201cstay\u201d state of the currently selected widget. When the \u201cstay\u201d state of a widget is selected, the widget plays continuously on the CHUMBY\u2122 device. Selection of the right arrow button  or left arrow button  causes the CHUMBY\u2122 device to display the previous or next widget in the channel, respectively. A user may, from any Web browser , access a Web page generated by the service provider  and designate a \u201cfavorite\u201d widget. Alternatively, a user may press a virtual, touchscreen-based button on his or her CHUMBY\u2122 device  to designate the current widget as the new \u201cfavorite\u201d widget. When the user then selects the heart-shaped icon (not shown in ) on his or her CHUMBY\u2122 device, an iconic representation of this favorite widget (e.g., a clock widget) replaces the heart-shaped icon and enables the user to immediately activate (i.e., cause the CPU  to execute) the program instructions corresponding to such favorite widget. Alternatively, selection of the heart-shaped icon (or other predefined icon) results in the CHUMBY\u2122 device becoming configured in accordance with a \u201cfavorite\u201d or other profile rather than executing a favorite widget. Of course, certain profiles may be specified to include only a single widget such as, for example, an \u201calarm clock\u201d or \u201cphoto viewer widget.","Referring again to , selection of the right arrow button  advances one widget in a user-defined (or default) widget sequence (\u201cchannel\u201d), or just skips ahead in implementations in which widgets are chosen to be displayed randomly. Similarly, selection of the left arrow button  results in \u201cgoing back\u201d one widget in the user-defined (or default) widget sequence (\u201cchannel\u201d). As the buttons  and  are selected, an iconic representation or avatar corresponding to the currently active widget is displayed in a display box . If it is desired to return to the currently active widget, the hide control panel mode button  is selected and the control panel mode interface  changes to a screen through which the user views the sequence of widgets currently configured to be executing on the CHUMBY\u2122 device.","In certain embodiments a physical button element (not shown) may be provided proximate the LCD screen  to enable navigation through menus and the like presented by the LCD screen . In one implementation this button element is cross-shaped in order to facilitate two-dimensional navigation, and may further include a smaller, dedicated button (e.g., in the center of the cross) associated with a specific widget (e.g., clock widget). Pressing this dedicated widget would interrupt the operation of all other widgets.","In implementations in which two-dimensional navigation through the user interface of the CHUMBY\u2122 device is supported, users may be provided with the ability to navigate forward and back in the configured widget timeline. Similarly, users may navigate up and down a stack of related widgets. This function depends on the implementation of the concept of widget categories\u2014i.e., associating widgets into logical categories that can be displayed sequentially, if configured to be displayed. An example of a category could be \u201cNews\u201d. Widgets included within this category could include, for example, a local news widget, a sports news widget, an entertainment news widget, a business news widget, and the like. For each category, there would be a default widget, which is designated by the user on the CHUMBY\u2122 web site for each category selected to be displayed by the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device.","If more than one widget in a category is selected, then the widgets are conceptually \u201cstacked\u201d with the default widget being:\n\n","If a widget for a given category (e.g., \u201cNews\u201d) is displayed and there exist additional widgets in the category which are also configured for display, then in the exemplary embodiment these additional widgets are \u201cstacked\u201d below the displayed widget. In this case the user may take some predefined action with respect to the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device (e.g., perhaps selecting a control on the touchscreen or accessing a function via the control panel, which is instantiated via actuating the squeeze sensor) in order to cause the next widget in the \u201cstack\u201d for that category to be displayed. The CHUMBY\u2122 device may be configured such that taking further predefined actions of the same type will cause the widgets either above or below in the stack to be displayed, as designated by the user. The last widget that is displayed in the stack for the applicable category when the CHUMBY\u2122 device cycles to the next widget category will be the widget displayed in the next cycle for the just exited category (e.g, News).","The tabular illustration below provides a conceptual layout of exemplary widget stacks in various categories:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0103"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"78.32mm","wi":"92.37mm","file":"US09344522-20160517-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"table","img-format":"tif"}}}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The following provides a conceptual representation of the case in which the user has navigated into widget stacks for News, Entertainment and Sports:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0105"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00002","num":"00002"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00002","he":"78.23mm","wi":"92.20mm","file":"US09344522-20160517-C00002.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"table","img-format":"tif"}}}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Example CHUMBY\u2122 Service Provider","Referring now to , a block diagrammatic representation is provided of the server components and other infrastructure which may be utilized to facilitate the operations of the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider . It is understood that the representation of  is functional in nature, and single or multiple computers may be adapted to execute software designed to perform one or more than one of the functions described below. For example, the functionality provided by the load balancers  may be provided by a single load balancing device or multiple load balancing devices. Similarly, each of the servers represented in  may be realized using either a single server computer or using a cluster comprised of primary, secondary and backup server computers interconnected in configurations familiar to those skilled in the art.","As shown in , one or more Web servers  are used to define the Web interface presented by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider  to users or other interested parties. A system database  may include, among other things, CHUMBY\u2122 user account information, CHUMBY\u2122 device configuration information, CHUMBY\u2122 widget configuration and instance information, marketing materials, press information, and contact information relating to the CHUMBY\u2122 service that is served by the Web servers . Also included may be information relating to registration and first-level support.","A user account server  maintains user account data in the system database  and provides authentication services to the other servers depicted in .","One or more widget servers  are used to serve widgets to CHUMBY\u2122 devices . Each widget server  will typically be sufficiently powerful to encrypt and sign widgets on demand. In addition, each server  will be configured to \u201cstore-and-forward\u201d widgets being sent from one user to another.","The service provider  may also utilize a number of content servers  to provide information (e.g., new, weather, stock market information) to CHUMBY\u2122 devices . In an exemplary embodiment all content servers function in a \u201cpull\u201d mode of operation; that is, CHUMBY\u2122 device  polls the applicable content server  for new data on some periodic basis. Each response from a content server  preferably contains the schedule and frequency for subsequent polls. For example, a content server  disposed to provide stock market information can change the polling frequency to reflect whether or not the stock market is open. In other implementations a CHUMBY\u2122 device  may be provided with the capability to change polling frequencies on the basis of, for example, environmental conditions (e.g., ambient room brightness) or other factors. One or more of the content servers  may be used for serving certain types of content uploaded by users for use on their own or other CHUMBY\u2122 devices  and stored within the system database .","The CHUMBY\u2122 service provider  will typically maintain a small number of load-balanced Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers  to provide time to CHUMBY\u2122 devices . Each such server  will be configured to fetch their time from a \u201cprimary\u201d NTP server, which fetches time from an upstream external public NTP server. If the primary NTP server  is inoperative, secondary NTP servers  will synchronize with a random selection of upstream servers. If all servers  are unavailable, a CHUMBY\u2122 device  will either fetch time information from random public NTP servers or simply have its time adjusted via user input. In one embodiment each CHUMBY\u2122 device  requests time upon connecting to the Internet and at jittered intervals thereafter, no more frequently than once a day.","Turning now to , a database model diagram is provided of an exemplary object-oriented database schema  utilized by the system database . As shown, the schema  includes the following tables: buddies, categories, CHUMBY\u2122 devices, parameters, profiles, skins, users, widget instance, widgets, ratings, registrations, activations, movies, templates, thumbnails. Each rectangular object in  is an entity object representation of a table in the database , with the primary key denoted with the acronym \u201cPK\u201d; ownership relationships indicated by dashed arrows which originate at the owned entity and terminate at the owning entity, and which are keyed by the asterisked column in the owned object; and solid arrows indicating a relationship between entities. Although the type of information contained within a number of these tables will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the discussion herein, a simplified example of various steps performed during user registration and the adding of a widget to a \u201cprofile\u201d is provided in order to further illuminate the structure of the database schema .","In one embodiment the user registration and account creation process is initiated by a user through submission, via a Web browser , of a CHUMBY\u2122 ID so as to identify a particular CHUMBY\u2122 device . The act of creating a user account results in the construction of a default profile and one or more widget instances, each of which is automatically assigned to the CHUMBY\u2122 device  (as identified by its CHUMBY\u2122 ID) currently being registered. When a user adds a widget to the user's profile, the user is presented with a list of potential categories based upon information within the categories table. The user then selects a category from the categories table, and the user is presented with a list of widgets belonging to the chosen category. After the user chooses a widget, a widget instance is constructed and information is entered into the appropriate fields (e.g., profile id, widget id, index). The user is then presented a user interface via the Web browser  for editing the widget-specific parameters associated with the selected widget. In response to the user's parameter selections, records are appropriately updated in the parameters table.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIGS. 19A-19H","b":"712"},"In general, it is contemplated that embodiments of the invention will be implemented such that each CHUMBY\u2122 device  will function as a client relative to various servers existing within the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider . In these embodiments the CHUMBY\u2122 devices  do not engage in direct communication with each other, but may do so via independent client-sever relationships established with the service provider . In this way the service provider  may facilitate the communication of a variety of different types of executable files (e.g., widgets or other computer programs, audio clips, short \u201cFlash\u201d movies, etc.) among CHUMBY\u2122 devices , subject to the permission of the content owner and potential recipient. A user may designate that a widget or other content be sent to another user, or to the members of a user's \u201cbuddy list\u201d or the like. This designation may be made via a Web browser  in communication with the service provider , or directly through the interface of the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device .","In one embodiment executable files may be created by users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices  or other third parties and loaded within the system database  after being approved by the entity operating the service provider . Once a widget or other executable file has been created and stored within the system database , it is made available for use by all those users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices  that have been granted the requisite permission. Various schemes for granting permissions among and between users are possible. For example, one such type of permission could entail that any user X that is given permission by a user Y to send widgets to user Y's CHUMBY\u2122 device may select any widget for which user X has usage rights and \u201csend\u201d such widget to user Y's CHUMBY\u2122 device. Other restrictions could be placed on the transferability of widgets or other files from the service provider  to a CHUMBY\u2122 device at the request of another user. For example, a user could be provided with the capability to \u201clock\u201d certain widgets on only the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device, or a CHUMBY\u2122 device could reach a \u201cfull\u201d state and advertise itself as being incapable of receiving any additional widgets.","Although widgets and other executable files could be transferred between the service provider  and CHUMBY\u2122 devices  in a number of different formats, in one embodiment such transfers will occur in the Flash movie format (i.e., as .swf files, when not signed or encrypted). In this case the process for downloading widgets from the service provider  includes receiving a notification at a CHUMBY\u2122 device  that a \u201cnew\u201d widget is ready for downloading. Since in the exemplary embodiment each CHUMBY\u2122 device  acts in a \u201cpull\u201d mode, each device  periodically polls the service provider and inquires as to whether any configuration changes are available to load. In the case in which a new widget is available for downloading, the CHUMBY\u2122 device  will generally use standard HTTP (or HTTPS) protocols in downloading the applicable widget file.","Attention is now directed to , which are a series of signal flow diagrams representative of the client-server communication protocol established between a CHUMBY\u2122 device  and the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider . As mentioned above, each CHUMBY\u2122 device  functions as a client relative to the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider . In one embodiment the basic protocol established between each CHUMBY\u2122 device and the corresponding server entity of the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider  may be characterized as XML using a Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture transmitted using HTTP. In general, the CHUMBY\u2122 device  issues periodic HTTP GET or POST requests and the service provider  responds with a block of XML. The CHUMBY\u2122 device  will use HTTP GET for relatively simple requests, and POST for more complex requests, which will be in encapsulated in XML. Individual data elements are uniquely identified by Global Unique Identifiers (GUID). In one embodiment, there will be some form of cryptographic key exchange and transactions will be encrypted using those keys. Furthermore, XML may be compressed in order to facilitate transfer between the CHUMBY\u2122 device  and the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider .","Each CHUMBY\u2122 device  will have a unique GUID. In some embodiments, time codes will be represented in ISO-8061 format.","Requesting a CHUMBY\u2122 Configuration","Referring to , a signal flow diagram  illustratively represents one manner in which a \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 configuration\u201d is provided to a CHUMBY\u2122 device  by the service provider . In one embodiment each CHUMBY\u2122 device  operates in accordance with a configuration, which specifies the profile to be loaded by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  under various conditions. The user specifies the profile for the CHUMBY\u2122 device  via a web interface at the CHUMBY\u2122 web site. The profile contains several operational parameters for the CHUMBY\u2122 device .","As shown in , the requesting of a configuration is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET request containing the GUID of the requested configuration to a CHUMBY\u2122 configuration object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request is provided below:","http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/chumbies\/CB6A8A20-DFB8-11DA-98FA-00306555C864","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and retrieves the requested configuration from the system database  (stage ). If the requested configuration exists, the service provider responds with an XML-based configuration; if not, the service provider  responds with an XML-based error message (stage ). An exemplary XML-based response generated by the service provider  is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0126"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<chumby id=\u201cCB6A8A20-DFB8-11DA-98FA-00306555C864\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>Bathroom<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<profile href=\u201c\/xml\/profiles\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d name=\u201cDefault\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<user username=\u201cFrank\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/users\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/chumby>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Once the response is received by the CHUMBY\u2122 device , it is processed by the Master Controller (stage ). If an error is instead received, it is processed by the Master Controller as well (stage ).","Requesting a Profile","Referring to , a signal flow diagram  illustratively represents one manner in which a \u201cprofile\u201d is provided to a CHUMBY\u2122 device  by the service provider . In one embodiment each CHUMBY\u2122 device  operates in accordance with a profile, which specifies the set of widgets to be executed by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  under various conditions. This enables a user to specify that a certain subset of the available set of widgets is to be instantiated and utilized during a particular time frame, based upon the location of the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device  or the skin (or housing) within which the CHUMBY\u2122 device  is currently seated. For instance, the user may desire that local weather and traffic information be provided while the user is located at home, but would prefer that airline flight information be available from the CHUMBY\u2122 device  when the user is traveling.","As shown in , the requesting of a profile is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET request containing the GUID of the requested profile to a profile object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request is provided below:","http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/profiles\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and retrieves the requested profile from the system database  (stage ). If the requested profile exists, the service provider responds with an XML-based profile; if not, the service provider  responds with an XML-based error message (stage ). An exemplary XML-based response generated by the service provider  is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0133"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<profile id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>Default<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>Default profile for your Chumby<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<user username=\u201cchumby\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/users\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<skin href=\u201c\/xml\/skins\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d name=\u201cStandard\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<access access=\u201cprivate\u201d id=\u201cEC667B90-EC41-11DA-8774-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instances>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/5D81823A-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c5D81823A-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/widget_instances>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<buddies_of>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<buddy profile=\u201cA9BF0AC6-07DB-11DC-A700-0017F2D98B02\u201d name=\u201cfredgarvin\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"profilename=\u201cDefault\u201d id=\u201c9790F788-07DB-11DC-A700-0017F2D98B02\u201d\/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/buddies_of>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/profile>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Once the response is received by the CHUMBY\u2122 device , it is processed by the Master Controller (stage ). If an error is instead received, it is processed by the Master Controller as well (stage ).","Each Profile has a name, a description, a skin, and a list of \u201cWidget Instances\u201d. The Profile will be periodically refetched in order to reflect changes made by the owner, for instance, adding and removing Widget Instances. The Profile may also contain a \u201cbuddies_of\u201d node, which contains information about users and profiles that have indicated the owner of the Profile to be a \u201cbuddy\u201d in order to facilitate the sending of widget instances.","The CHUMBY\u2122 device  processes each Widget Instance in turn, fetching the settings for each widget, and the Widget itself, and displays the Widget with the settings encapsulated by the Widget Instance.","A process similar to that described with reference to  may be used to change a profile. An example of an HTTP POST containing an the GUID of the profile to modify and an XML-based request to change a profile generated by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0138"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/profiles\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001"},{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<profile id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>Default<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>Default profile for your Chumby<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<user username=\u201cchumby\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/users\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<skin href=\u201c\/xml\/skins\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d name=\u201cStandard\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<access access=\u201cprivate\u201d id=\u201cEC667B90-EC41-11DA-8774-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instances>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/10A66395-8500-215E-81F0-003256F98257\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c10A66395-8500-215E-81F0-003256F98257\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/widget_instances>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/profile>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"An exemplary XML-based response corresponding to such a request which contains the updated profile could be provided by the service provider  as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0140"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<profile id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>Default<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>Default profile for your Chumby<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<user username=\u201cchumby\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/users\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<skin href=\u201c\/xml\/skins\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d name=\u201cStandard\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<access access=\u201cprivate\u201d id=\u201cEC667B90-EC41-11DA-8774-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instances>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB2BE8552-E7F2-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c033BFBC2-E794-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c94177E18-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9AA50336-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c9E4647F2-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c7AC67832-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/B4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201cB4C35F06-E777-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_instance href=\u201c\/xml\/widgetinstances\/10A66395-8500-215E-81F0-003256F98257\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c10A66395-8500-215E-81F0-003256F98257\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/widget_instances>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/profile>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Widget Instance Upload\/Download","Turning now to , there are shown signal flow diagrams representative of the communication of widget instance information from the CHUMBY\u2122 device  to the service provider , and vice-versa. In one embodiment the set of parameters associated with a widget instance determine the user-specified manner in which the behavior of the widget is modified when executed by a CHUMBY\u2122 device . That is, the parameters fetched by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  from the service provider  for a given widget constitute the user's \u201ccustomized\u201d settings, rather than dynamic content. For example, in the case of a \u201cstock ticker\u201d widget the applicable parameters could comprise the names and symbols of the stocks within the user's portfolios, but would not define or relate to the current prices of the stocks (which would be furnished by another service supplied by the service provider ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0143"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["102","106","106"]},"As shown, the widget instance change operation is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP POST and an XML request to a widget instance object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). This type of \u201cUPLOAD\u201d operation informs the service  that the parameters of a specific widget instance have been updated by the applicable user. As shown, the updated parameters are received by the service provider (stage ), and are attempted to be written to a corresponding widget instance object within the system database  (stage ). If this attempted write operation is unsuccessful (stage ), the service provider  responds with an error message that is processed by the requesting CHUMBY\u2122 device  (stage ). If the write operation is successful, the newly updated widget instance are retrieved from the system database  (stage ) and sent to the applicable CHUMBY\u2122 device  (stage ).","Once received, the widget instance is processed by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  (stage ). In general, the processing of the parameters contained in a widget instance are dependent upon the characteristics of the particular widget. In certain cases the parameters may be sufficient to enable the widget to display information, while other widgets may use the parameters to fetch content from another service. As an example of the former, consider a \u201cclock\u201d widget capable of displaying information following receipt of a parameter indicating a time zone. In contrast, a \u201cstock widget\u201d may have stock symbols as parameters and use such symbols to fetch quote information.","Referring now to , there is shown a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary widget instance download operation in which the service provider  is requested to push values of widget-specific parameters to a requesting CHUMBY\u2122 device . The requesting of a parameter download is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET containing the GUID of the requested widget instance request to a parameter object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request in the case of a \u201cweather\u201d widget is provided below:","http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/widgetinstances\/5D81823A-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and retrieves the requested parameters from the system database  (stage ). If the requested parameters exist, the service provider  responds with an XML-based widget instance message (stage ). Using the example of a weather widget, which utilizes a zip code to identify the location for which weather is to be retrieved, such a message could comprise:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0149"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<widget_instance id=\u201c5D81823A-E77D-11DA-B4BD-00306555C864\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<widget href=\u201c\/xml\/widgets\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306555C864\u201d id=\u201cBF4CE814-"]},{"entry":[{},"DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<profile href=\u201c\/xml\/profiles\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-"]},{"entry":[{},"0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<access access=\u201cprivate\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<mode time=\u201c10\u201d mode=\u201ctimeout\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<received buddy=\u201c9790F788-07DB-11DC-A700-0017F2D98B02\u201d forward=\u201ctrue\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"accepted=\u201cfalse\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<widget_parameters>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<widget_parameter id=\u201cBF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306643C864\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>ZipCode<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value>92037<\/name>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/widget_parameter>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/widget_parameters>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/widget_instance>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The CHUMBY\u2122 device  uses the GUID in the \u201cwidget\u201d tag to fetch the information about the Widget to be displayed. Once the widget has been started, it is passed the name\/value pairs in the \u201cwidget parameters\u201d section, in order to customize the behavior of the widget. The \u201cmode\u201d tag indicates how long the widget is to be played. A value of \u201cdefault\u201d in the mode attribute indicates that the timing will be specified by the widget description, an attribute value of \u201ctimeout\u201d will use the duration specified in the \u201ctime\u201d attribute (in seconds), and the value of \u201ccooperative\u201d will display the widget until the user explicitly commands it to stop through a UI element, or the widget itself indicates that it wishes to discontinue operation. The presence of a \u201creceived\u201d node indicates that the widget instance has been \u201csent\u201d by a buddy. The value of the \u201caccepted\u201d attribute indicates whether or not the widget instance has been accepted by the recipient, which is done either through the web interface or through the UI of the device. The \u201cforward\u201d attribute indicates whether this widget instance can be sent on to another user.","If the requested parameters do not exist, a default widget instance is attempted to be retrieved from the system database  (stage ). If such a widget instance exists (stage ), the service provider  responds with an XML-based parameters message that is processed by the CHUMBY\u2122 device  upon receipt (stage ). If such a default widget instance does not exist, an error message is returned to the CHUMBY\u2122 device  (stage ).","Examples of Widget Download","Referring now to , a signal flow diagram  is provided which illustratively represents the process of downloading the code for a widget (e.g., a .swf file) from the service provider  for execution on a CHUMBY\u2122 device . The process is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET request containing the GUID of the requested widget to a specific widget description object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request is provided below:","http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/widgets\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306555C864","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and attempts to retrieve the requested widget description from the system database  or other data source available to the service provider  (stage ). If the requested widget description is able to be retrieved, the service provider  responds with an XML-based widget description message; if not, the service provider  responds with an XML-based error message (stage ). An exemplary XML-based response generated by the service provider  is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0156"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<widget id=\u201cBF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306555C864\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<name>Time Zones<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>A time zone selector<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<version>1.0<\/version>"]},{"entry":[{},"<protection protection=\u201cnone\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<mode time=\u201c15\u201d mode=\u201cdefault\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<access sendable=\u201ctrue\u201d deleteable=\u201ctrue\u201d access=\u201cpublic\u201d virtualable=\u201ctrue\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<user username=\u201cchumby\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/users\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<category href=\u201c\/xml\/categories\/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d name=\u201cChumby\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"id=\u201c00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<thumbnail contenttype=\u201cimage\/jpeg\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/thumbnails\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-"]},{"entry":[{},"00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<template contenttype=\u201ctext\/xml\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/templates\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-"]},{"entry":[{},"00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<movie contenttype=\u201capplication\/x-shockwave-flash\u201d href=\u201c\/xml\/movies\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-"]},{"entry":[{},"9C82-00306555C864\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<rating count=\u201c0\u201d rating=\u201c0.0\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/widget>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Once the requested widget description is received by the CHUMBY\u2122 device , the CHUMBY\u2122 device  uses the URL referencing the \u201cmovie\u201d for the requested widget to download the movie (e.g., .swf) file from the service provider . The CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET request containing the GUID of the requested movie to a specific movie object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request is provided below:","http:\/\/server.chumby.com\/xml\/movies\/BF4CE814-DFB8-11DA-9C82-00306555C864","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and attempts to retrieve the requested movie from the system database  or other data source available to the service provider  (stage ). If the requested movie is able to be retrieved, the service provider  responds with the .swf file which implements the movie; if not, the service provider  responds with an XML-based error message (stage ). Once the requested movie is received by the CHUMBY\u2122 device , it is loaded by the Master Controller and queued for subsequent execution (stage ). If an error is instead received, it is processed accordingly (stage ).","Requesting Content","Referring now to , a signal flow diagram  is provided which illustratively represents the process of obtaining content from the service provider  for a widget of a CHUMBY\u2122 device . The process is initiated when the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends an HTTP GET and an optional XML request to a specific content object within the system database  maintained by the service provider  (stage ). An example of such a request for content for a \u201ctide\u201d widget is provided below:\n\n","The service provider  receives the request (stage ), and attempts to retrieve the requested content from the system database , internal content service, external content service or other data source available to the service provider  (stage ). If the requested content is able to be retrieved, the service provider  responds with an XML-based content message; if not, the service provider  responds with an XML-based error message (stage ). Once the requested content is received by the CHUMBY\u2122 device , corresponding audiovisual output is generated by the device  for the benefit of its user (stage ). If an error is instead received, it is processed accordingly (stage ). An exemplary XML-based response generated by the service provider  is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0164"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<tideitems>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<tideitem timestamp=\u201c2006-05-31T00:39:11Z\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<location>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<locationstring string=\u201cNational City, San Diego Bay, California\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<station id=\u201cNational City, San Diego Bay\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<state name=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<country name=\u201cUnited States\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<coordinates lat=\u201c32.6667\u00c2\u00b0 N\u201d, lon=\u201c117.1167\u00c2\u00b0 W\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/location>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tides>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T12:44:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.85"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T02:50:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T06:30:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T06:56:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.80"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T24:41:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T14:46:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c\u22120.13"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T16:38:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-05-31T21:55:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.14"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T01:38:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.92"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T02:50:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T07:06:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T07:41:007\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.64"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T24:41:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T15:37:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c\u22120.01"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T17:38:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-01T22:59:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.18"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T02:51:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T02:58:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.96"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T07:37:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T08:35:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.47"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T24:41:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T16:28:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.09"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T18:35:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-02T23:51:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.26"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T02:51:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T04:44:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.93"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T08:04:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonset\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T09:46:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.31"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T24:41:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cSunrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T17:17:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cLow Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c0.19"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T19:31:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cMoonrise\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-03T23:06:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cFirst Quarter\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<tide dateTime=\u20182006-06-04T12:30:00Z\u2019, tidedescription=\u201cHigh Tide\u201d, tidelevel=\u201c1.35"]},{"entry":[{},"meters\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/tides>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/tideitem>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/tideitems>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In the case where content is retrieved directly from an external content service provider (i.e., from other than the service provider ), a series of web-based transactions (most likely HTTP and\/or XML-based) defined by such content service provider will take place between the CHUMBY\u2122 device  and such provider.","CHUMBY\u2122 devices  may optionally include a hardware security module, which in one implementation is accessed via a character driver interface in the operating system (\u201cOS\u201d) of the device . The module may or may not be installed. When the module is not installed, the OS preferably virtualizes the hardware security module by emulating it in software. While losing all the tamper-resistance benefits of a hardware module, this feature enables cost reduction savings while maintaining protocol interoperability with a secured system.","The hardware security module of a CHUMBY\u2122 device  may be implemented in a number of ways. As an example, the hardware security module may be implemented using a monolithic security processor or a cryptographic Smart Card module. This module, or its emulated counterpart, is capable of at a minimum, the following operations: (1) storage of secret numbers in hardware; (2) the ability to compute public-key signatures; (3) the ability to compute one-way cryptographic hashes; and (4) the ability to generate trusted random numbers.","During the manufacturing process the hardware security module, or its emulated counterpart, is initialized with a set of secret numbers that are only known to the module and to the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider . These secret numbers may or may not consist of public and private keys. If the numbers consist of public and private keys, then a mutual key-pair is stored by both the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider  and the hardware module, along with a putative, insecure identifier number for the pair. Furthermore, these numbers are preferably not recorded by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider  in association with any other identifying information, such as the MAC address for the WLAN interface, or any other serial numbers that are stored in insecure memory for customer service purposes.","When the user or service wishes to initiate a strong authenticated transaction, the CHUMBY\u2122 device  sends the putative insecure key-pair identifier to the service provider . The service provider  looks up the putative insecure key-pair identifier and issues a challenge to the hardware module, consisting of a random number In particular, the challenge is packetized and sent through the Internet to the CHUMBY\u2122 device . The device  unpacks the challenge and passes it directly to the hardware module. The hardware module adds another random number to the packet and signs the pair of numbers, along with other transaction information (such as the version number of the protocol) with a private key that is only known to the CHUMBY cryptoprocessor. In addition, an \u201cowner key\u201d may optionally be encrypted to the server public key. Again, this message is packetized and transmitted by the device  to the service provider  over the Internet. Upon receipt, the service provider  verifies the signature of the packet using the device's public key, which was generated and recorded at the time of manufacture and indexed by the hash of the putative insecure key-pair identifier. The CHUMBY device is deemed authentic if the signature is correct and the signed packet contains the exact random number that was generated by the service provider in the first step of the challenge. The service provide  also decrypts the owner key, whose purpose is discussed in the next paragraph. At the conclusion of this transaction, the service provider  has authenticated the device , and can fall back to any number of session keys that can be either dynamically generated or statically stored for further secured transactions. Advantageously, this authentication transaction does not involve uniquely associating the hardware module with user information. Rather, the service provider  is simply aware of the existence of the approved hardware module and upon completion of the authentication transaction may safely trust the integrity of the secrets stored therein.","The owner key comprises a random number (or one of a set of random numbers) generated at the time of manufacture and stored only within the cryptographic processor. The owner key is transmitted to the server, encrypted using the server public key, and used as a shared secret to protect any other secrets (user passwords, credit card information, etc.) that may be stored on the server. Once a user decides they no longer wish to continue with the service, or desire to sell or transfer their CHUMBY\u2122 device, or otherwise wish to revoke any secrets entrusted to the server, the user can instruct the cryptographic processor to delete the key from memory, thereby abolishing the server's ability to decrypt the secrets entrusted to it.","A user of the device  may opt-out of privacy mode and provide identifying information, as required by some billing services such as credit cards and banks. Optionally, an anonymous cash-based transaction network can be established where accounts are opened and managed only by secrets contained within the hardware module.","To enable limited revocation of user-identifying information, the specific embodiment of the master authentication protocol should operate on a set of clean-room servers with a multiplicity of connections that are trusted by the CHUMBY\u2122 service provider , and authenticated session keys are then passed on laterally to the content servers. Thus, the anonymity of the master authentication key is nominally preserved, although it is possible to recreate and correlate transactions from forensic logs and transaction timings. The use of multiple servers and multiple connections, along with network routing randomization techniques, can be used to increase the anonymization resistance to forensic logging (cf. Tor network), but this configuration is in no way essential to the network's operation.","Example CHUMBY\u2122 Device Calibration, Registration and Account Management","Attention is now directed to , which are a set of flowcharts representative of the calibration, registration and initial operation of a CHUMBY\u2122 device and associated account management functions.","Initial Power-Up",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0173","num":"0175"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 15-16","FIG. 17","FIG. 18"],"b":["1400","102","102","102","1404","102","1408","1412","102","106","1416","102","102","1420","1430","1440","102","1444","102","1450"]},"In one embodiment a CHUMBY\u2122 device downloads configuration information from the service provider  each time it is powered on or otherwise re-establishes communication with the service provider . However, a minimal amount of widget and configuration information may be locally stored on a CHUMBY\u2122 device so that it may continue to function in the absence of network connectivity. For example, a clock widget may be permanently stored on a CHUMBY\u2122 device so that its clock function could remain operational at all times. A CHUMBY\u2122 device will typically include sufficient memory capacity to hold configuration information received from the service provider  for all of the widgets to be executed by the device, up to some reasonable number of widgets. If a user changes the configuration for a CHUMBY\u2122 device through the Web site maintained by the service provider , a polling function implemented on the corresponding CHUMBY\u2122 device will typically be used to \u201cpull\u201d the modified configuration information from the service provider . Alternatively, an operation may be manually initiated via the interface of the corresponding CHUMBY\u2122 device in order to obtain this information (e.g., an \u201cUpdate My CHUMBY\u2122 Device Now\u201d operation).","Example Widget Selection, Removal and Configuration","Attention is now directed to , which are a set of flowcharts representative of Web-based widget selection, removal and configuration processes contemplated by embodiments of the present invention. Screen shots of exemplary user interfaces presented by the Web browser  or, alternatively, the screen  of the applicable CHUMBY\u2122 personal audiovisual device , which are used to facilitate certain of these processes are illustrated in .","Overview of Widget Management Process","Turning now to , a top-level flowchart  is provided of exemplary Web-based interaction occurring between a device user and the service provider  with regard to adding, removing and configuring widget profiles relative to the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device. Alternatively, this interaction between a device user and the service provider  may be effected through user interface screens presented by the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device in lieu of the Web browser . Although a user may have the impression that a CHUMBY\u2122 device itself is being configured through the process of , in the exemplary embodiment a profile currently assigned to the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device is instead configured.","As shown in , the user logs in to the user's account maintained with the service provider  via a Web browser  (stage ) and proceeds to the user's \u201chome page\u201d or the equivalent (stage ). From this home page the user selects a \u201cSet Up\u201d device tab or the like (stage ) and the Web browser  presents a corresponding \u201cSet Up\u201d page (stage ). The user then selects the CHUMBY\u2122 device profile to be configured from a list based upon either the device's serial number or description (stage ). The current configuration for the selected device profile is then retrieved from the system database  and loaded into the device (stage ). Once this has occurred the user selects an action to be performed, as is illustrated by  (stage ). Such actions may include, for example, adding, deleting or editing widget profiles. If the user opts to add widget profiles (stage ), then the Web browser  displays an \u201cAdd Widgets Page\u201d through which widget profiles may be added to the current configuration of the applicable CHUMBY\u2122 device in the manner described below with reference to  (stage ). If the user instead chooses to delete widget profiles from such current configuration (stage ), then a \u201cDelete Widgets Page\u201d is presented through which the deletion operation may be completed consistent with the approach described below with reference to  (stage ). Alternatively, the user may select another CHUMBY\u2122 device profile to configure (stage ), or simply exit and return to the user's home page (stage ).","Turning now to , an alternate top-level flowchart  is provided of exemplary Web-based interaction occurring between a device user and the service provider  with regard to adding, removing and configuring widget profiles relative to the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device. Although a user may have the impression that a CHUMBY\u2122 device itself is being configured through the process of , in the exemplary embodiment a profile currently assigned to the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device is instead configured.","As shown in , the user logs in to the user's account maintained with the service provider  via a Web browser  (stage ) and proceeds to the user's \u201cMY CHUMBY\u2122 page\u201d or the equivalent, as is illustrated by  (stage ). From this MY CHUMBY\u2122 page the user optionally selects the CHUMBY\u2122 device to be configured from a list or the like, as is illustrated by  (stage ) and the Web browser  loads the currently configured widget channel into the current page (stage ). The user then optionally selects the CHUMBY\u2122 widget channel to be configured from a list or the like, as is illustrated by  (stage ). The current channel configuration for the selected CHUMBY\u2122 device is then updated in the system database , loaded into the current page (stage ) and loaded by the currently selected CHUMBY\u2122 device (stage ). At any point the user may select the \u201cEdit Channel\u201d option (stage ), following which a \u201cEdit Channel Page\u201d is presented, as is illustrated by  (stage ), with the widget configuration for the selected channel is loaded into the page (stage ). Once this has occurred, the user may select an action to be performed (stage ). Such actions may include, for example, changing, renaming, deleting or creating new widget channels; adding widgets to, removing widgets from, changing playback order of widgets within or configuring widgets within the selected channel. If the user opts to perform a widget action (stage ), then the widget instance for the affected widget and\/or the configuration for the selected channel within the system database  are updated, which subsequently effects a corresponding update to the local copy of the channel configuration of all CHUMBY\u2122 devices currently \u201cplaying\u201d the selected channel (stage ). If the user opts to perform a channel action (stage ), then the configuration for the selected channel within the system database  is updated which subsequently effects a corresponding update to the local copy of the channel configuration of all CHUMBY\u2122 devices currently \u201cplaying\u201d the selected channel (stage ). Alternatively, the user may select another channel to configure (stage ), or navigate to another page (stages , ).","Adding Widgets",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0185"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 17B","FIGS. 17C-17D","FIG. 17E"],"b":["2300","106","106","122","122","712","2302","2304","2308","2312","2316","2320","106","2324","2328","2332","2320","2340"]},"If the user decides to exit the process of adding widgets to the current configuration, the user may perform one of several actions, including, but not limited to: select another CHUMBY\u2122 device to configure; navigate to another page on the CHUMBY\u2122 site; log out from the CHUMBY\u2122 site; or close the applicable browser window (stage ). If the user instead chooses to save the current widget configuration for the applicable CHUMBY\u2122 device (stage ), the user selects a \u201cSubmit\u201d, \u201cCommit\u201d, \u201cOk\u201d or similar button to cause any changes made to be recorded in the system database  (stage ). After either saving the current widget configuration or electing to exit the process, the user may be directed to a predefined page (stage ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0185","num":"0187"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 22D","FIG. 22F","FIG. 22G","FIG. 22H"],"b":["3800","106","122","712","3802","3804","3808","3832","3812","3816","3820","3824","106","712","3828","3812","3816","3824","3840","3850"]},"If the user decides to exit the process of adding widgets to the current configuration, the user may perform one of several actions, including, but not limited to: select another channel to configure, as is illustrated by ; navigate to another page on the CHUMBY\u2122 site (stage ); log out from the CHUMBY\u2122 site; or close the applicable browser window.","Widget Removal","Referring now to , a flowchart  is provided which is representative of exemplary Web-based interaction occurring between a device user and the service provider  in connection with the removal of widgets from the current configuration of the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device. Alternatively, this interaction between a device user and the service provider  may be effected through user interface screens presented by the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device in lieu of the Web browser . Upon being presented with the \u201cEDIT CHANNEL Page\u201d, as is illustrated by  (stage ), the user may elect to either de-activate a selected widget (stage ), delete (or remove) a selected widget (stage ), or select some other widget, channel and\/or page navigation operation (stage ). If widget de-activation is chosen, the user is prompted to confirm the choice (stage ). Once such confirmation has been provided the widget is marked as \u201cinactive\u201d on the page currently being rendered by the Web browser  (stage ). In addition, the widget instance configuration for the selected channel is updated within the system database  (stage ) and any CHUMBY\u2122 devices currently displaying the selected channel are updated. Similarly, if it is instead chosen to delete the selected widget, the user is optionally prompted to confirm the choice (stage ). Once the widget is deleted or after optionally required confirmation has been provided, the widget is removed from the page currently being rendered by the Web browser  (stage ), the widget instance is \u201cdeleted\u201d from the channel configuration in the system database  (stage ) and any CHUMBY\u2122 devices currently displaying the selected channel are updated. If confirmation to de-activate or delete the selected widget is required, but not provided (stages  and ), the operation is aborted.","Referring now to , an alternate flowchart  is provided which is representative of exemplary interaction occurring, via the CHUMBY\u2122 device of a user, between such user and the service provider  in connection with the removal of widgets from the current configuration of the user's CHUMBY\u2122 device. With a widget displayed on the screen  of the CHUMBY\u2122 device (stage ), the user performs the gesture which selects the Control Panel (stage ). Upon being presented with the Control Panel, as is illustrated by  (stage ), which displays the avatar for the current widget (stage ), the user may optionally use the widget navigation controls to singly or iteratively select a new current widget (stage ), in which case the new current widget is loaded (stage ) and its avatar displayed (stage ). The user may then elect to delete (or remove) the current widget by selecting DELETE (stage ). If widget deletion is chosen, the user is prompted to confirm the choice, as is illustrated by  (stage ). If the user confirms the deletion (stage ), the widget instance is deleted from the channel on the CHUMBY\u2122 device and the widget instance is \u201cdeleted\u201d from the channel configuration in the system database  (stage ). If confirmation is not provided, the operation is aborted. At this point, the delete confirmation screen is exited (stage ) and the Control Panel is displayed. The user has the option to select HIDE CONTROL PANEL (stage ), which exits the control panel and resumes normal widget play.","Widget Configuration",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0193"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 22H"],"b":["2500","2502","2504","2508","122","2512","2516","2520","2524","2528","2516","2540","712","2544","712","2550","2560"]},"In an exemplary embodiment the service provider  populates a corresponding widget and parameters tables within the system database in accordance with the user's parameter selections. In this regard the widget table may include an XML-based \u201cparam_desc_xml\u201d field containing instructions enabling the construction of associated records in parameters table. For example, for a \u201cclock\u201d widget the XML-based instructions could indicate that a time zone should be a valid parameter, and could also be utilized to create appropriate records in the parameters table.","Users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices may be provided with an interface to allow to facilitate sending electronic greeting cards in the form of rich Flash animations. Upon visiting a predefined web site (e.g., http:\/\/greetings.chumby.com) and optionally being authenticated by presenting appropriate credentials, a user will be presented with a catalog of \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 Greetings\u201d. In one embodiment access to certain \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 Greetings\u201d may be dependent on membership status. Any authenticated user, irrespective of the number of registered CHUMBY\u2122 devices, will have the permission to send CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings to one or more arbitrary email addresses or, alternatively, one or more users registered with the CHUMBY\u2122 network. If a visitor to the web site is aware of the globally and temporally unique email address of an existing CHUMBY\u2122 device, the account name in which the CHUMBY\u2122 device is registered, or other means of identifying individual CHUMBY\u2122 devices, they may specify CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings to be forwarded directly to such a device using the existing widget transfer infrastructure of the service provider . Upon receipt at the CHUMBY\u2122 device, the transferred CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings will be added to the channel or profile in which the recipient has designated for receipt of widgets or other delivered content. Once the widget has been delivered to a channel or profile, the recipient will have the option of accepting or rejecting the delivered content. In the event that a user accepts the CHUMBY\u2122, the CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting will be added to the recipient's widget slideshow rotation in accordance with the applicable profile of the device. In one example, a visitor to the web site may choose to assign a certain level of priority to a CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting such that it may be displayed by the recipient CHUMBY\u2122 device immediately following actuation of the device's alarm function. Alternatively, a priority assigned to a CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting may define the placement of the CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting in the recipient's widget rotation.","CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings sent to email addresses that are not bound to physical CHUMBY\u2122 devices will be forwarded as an SMTP email message. This message will originate from, for example, \u201cgreetings@chumby.com\u201d (or a user supplied email address), and will contain a URL or hyperlink pointing to a temporary web page hosting the Flash movie comprising the CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting in addition to an optional user-defined message. Authenticated users will have the ability to select one or more peers from their CHUMBY\u2122 \u201cBuddy List\u201d as recipients of a preconfigured CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting. In one embodiment of CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings, a subscription may be required for access to certain features such as CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings. In such an embodiment, users subscribing to the CHUMBY\u2122 Network will have access to \u201cpremium\u201d CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings. In one embodiment, CHUMBY\u2122 may wish to elect a \u201cpay-per-view\u201d model where the use of a \u201cpremium\u201d CHUMBY\u2122 Greetings may be charged as a micro-transaction. In one embodiment, CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting recipients that are not bound to physical CHUMBY\u2122 devices will be presented with an option to forward the CHUMBY\u2122 Greeting to alternate email addresses or physical CHUMBY\u2122 devices.","CHUMBY\u2122 Channels","In certain embodiments profiles pertinent to various specialty interests or activities (e.g., sports, cooking) may be developed and maintained by the service provider  or other users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices. Each such profile, or \u201cchannel\u201d, could be subscribed to by interested users of CHUMBY\u2122 devices. This may be considered a special case of mirroring to a \u201cvirtual\u201d CHUMBY\u2122 device as described above, but would further involve effort on the part of the \u201cowners\u201d of each channel to keep its widget set and other content updated. Channels could somewhat broadly focus upon a particular subject (e.g., recipes, football), or could be more specific in nature (e.g., vegetarian recipes, NFL football).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0197","num":"0199"},"figref":["FIGS. 25-28","FIGS. 1-4"]},"The CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices may typically be configured either through a user computer (not shown) disposed for communication with the service provider or directly through the user interfaces of such client devices. When a user computer is utilized, a user may configured one or more CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices through interaction with a Web browser displaying pages generated by the central service provider. As mentioned above, such configuration may include, for example, specifying a set of widgets (i.e., small, Flash-based applications which present content, media, services and the like to the user via a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device) to be sent to a particular CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device and their sequence of execution. Such configuration may further include adjusting audio or visual parameters relating to such execution, defining and managing a user's CHUMBY\u2122 network, and defining the layout or other aspects of the user interface presented through the screen of the CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device.","In one embodiment each CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device includes an Open Source software stack built on a Linux core. Services and utilities such as btplay, httpd, zeroconf and DLNA plug into the Linux core. Adobe Flash Lite 3.x is used as the presentation and content\/media rendering layer enabling the chumby network and CHUMBY\u2122 widgets to provide a flexible, adaptable rich media experience to users or CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices. With the exception of the Adobe Flash component, in one embodiment the entire CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client software stack is Open Source. In one embodiment user interface and widget player of each CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device are written entirely in Adobe Flash. This enables the appearance of the user interface elements to be easily adapted to various screen sizes, orientations and device types.","Due to the open nature of the CHUMBY\u2122 client software, it is easily ported to a broad variety of architectures and devices. In one embodiment a client device requires only a compatible version of Flash and an IP-based connection to the Internet to be capable of being configured to operate as a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device. Although in certain implementations it is preferred that a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device include a Linux operating system, this is not requirement and it is possible to port the CHUMBY\u2122 client software to any number of device operating systems including, for example, variants of Microsoft Windows.","During operation of a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device, software comprising widgets or other applications is received from the central service provider is stored within memory for execution by the processor of the device. In one embodiment widgets are downloaded from the service provider  to CHUMBY\u2122 devices in the format of a Flash Lite file, also referred to as a \u201cFlash movie\u201d. The memory of the device also includes a Flash Player for playing the widgets received by the device.","Referring to , in one embodiment the CHUMBY\u2122 cloud services are delivered through a web-based application (the \u201cCHUMBY\u2122 network application\u201d) that runs on redundant, load balanced, Linux-based Sun servers. The data layer may be implemented on a MySQL cluster and the application, presentation and services layers may be implemented in Ruby on Rails.","As is described hereinafter, the CHUMBY\u2122 network may be configured to provide at least the following services.","1. A user-facing web site at, for example, www.chumby.com, which provides an intuitive, easy to use interface for CHUMBY\u2122 users to activate, manage and configure all of their CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices; manage and configure their CHUMBY\u2122 widgets and channels (\u201cplaylists\u201d of widgets); and manage their CHUMBY\u2122 social network of friends and family (\u201cchums\u201d). The CHUMBY\u2122 web site may also supports the open platform developer community through developer mini-sites for widget, software and hardware development.","2. An XML-based web services API which the supports the activation, management, configuration, operation of and widget delivery to all CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices. All CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices activated on the CHUMBY\u2122 network preferably retrieve their configurations and widgets via the CHUMBY\u2122 network. Software updates for CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices are also managed via the CHUMBY\u2122 network. When a new update is available for a user's CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device, the user is notified and given the option to install the update automatically.","The CHUMBY\u2122 network provides a one-stop service for users to activate and manage all of their CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices. Each device is preferably uniquely identified and bound to a single user's CHUMBY\u2122 account. A user can activate and manage any number of CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices against a single account or across multiple accounts (but a device can generally only be active in one account at a given time). This advantageously permits a user to easily get a newly-acquired CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices up on the CHUMBY\u2122 network running the same widgets as are being executed by the user's existing CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices. No new account creation, widget configuration or learning curve is required.","Because in exemplary embodiments CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices are connected to the Internet and widgets are written in Flash, users of CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices may have access to virtually every type of content available on the Internet. Below are various examples of the type of media, content and services potentially available to CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices via the CHUMBY\u2122 network:\n\n","Widgets for desired content or services can be quickly developed and deployed via the open CHUMBY\u2122 network. CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices support interactivity, so users can not only watch or listen to content but engage in a variety of other activities. Such activities of a user could include, for example (i) interacting with the widgets executed by the user's CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device and related content services delivered therethrough, (ii) sending widgets via the CHUMBY\u2122 network to their \u201cchums\u201d, (iii) replying to their friend requests, (iv) bidding on their auctions, (v) changing the widget \u201cchannel\u201d they are watching, (v) engaging in a game with another CHUMBY\u2122 user.","The CHUMBY\u2122 network also advantageously facilitates various forms of advertising. As is known, many advertisements delivered via the Internet today have already been developed in Flash. Since CHUMBY\u2122 widgets may also be implemented in Flash, it is apparent that CHUMBY\u2122 widgets may easily interface with new or existing ad servers and services to deliver advertisements in widgets (or advertisements that are widgets) via the CHUMBY\u2122 network. These advertisements may include images, video, audio or mixed media, and\/or requests for interaction such as \u201ctouch here for more information\u201d, \u201csend me email with details or a coupon\/offer code,\u201d or \u201cbuy now!\u201d Advertisements could take the form of interactive games delivered through CHUMBY\u2122 widgets.","Advertisements may also be targeted to CHUMBY\u2122 users\/devices based on anonymized demographic information (age, gender, zip code, education level) and psychographic data (widgets played, content viewed, music listened to, day part usage, etc) to create a highly effective campaign.","Turning now to , there is shown a screen shot of an exemplary user interface presented by a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device. As is indicated by , user selection of a \u201cWidgets\u201d screen button in a left pane of the user interface results in display of a \u201cWidget Categories\u201d view in a right pane of the user interface. Similar forms of user interface screens may be presented by CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices to support settings and configurations options for widgets, streaming audio, and other configurable selections. Alternatively, hard or soft key buttons on CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices may be utilized to select such setting and configuration options.","A CHUMBY\u2122 widget is generally configurable in a manner specified by the widget author(s). Certain widgets will require a user to enter configuration information such as postal code, news type (sports, business, world, etc), account information or stock ticker symbols before displaying meaningful information. Other widgets may display default information in the absence of configuration or may not require any configuration whatsoever.","In one embodiment CHUMBY\u2122 widgets are characterized with respect to a range of hardware characteristics supported or required in connection with the execution of such widgets. Such characteristics will typically be made visible in the various widget catalogs which a user may access via the CHUMBY\u2122 web site in connection with selecting widgets for playing on the user's CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device. A more complete discussion of an exemplary process for characterization, selection and deployment of widgets suitable for various types of CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices is set forth in Appendix A.","If a CHUMBY\u2122 widget allows to user to select from one or more information feeds, then the user will have the option to do so. Numerous widgets may be developed which enable access to feeds for weather, news, sports, comedy, entertainment, video and audio content. The user may select to play any or all of these feeds at any time and in any order.","It is a feature of typical embodiments of the invention that CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices are not required to display a \u201chome page\u201d or similar operational or start-up page. The author of a CHUMBY\u2122 widget determines the way in which the content is to be presented to the user upon being rendered by a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device. Such content can be text and simple images, video, audio or some other combination of the above. In various embodiments the user interface of a CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client device can simultaneously display any number of active widgets, subject only to screen size and resolution constraints.","CHUMBY\u2122 widgets can be configured to update from feeds or any other data source, API or web services interface at any desired interval. In one embodiment a user may nonetheless select to play one or more widgets at any time and the selected widget(s) will play immediately.","In general, CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices are typically configured to deliver content and media through the use of widgets. However, this is not a requirement and, for example, services such as streaming audio may be delivered via a discrete audio subsystem (enabling a user to play music and other audio while widgets are also playing). In exemplary embodiments widgets comprise individual Flash-based applications capable of retrieving content and media from services and interfaces on the CHUMBY\u2122 network. Such content and media may in the form of text (e.g., RSS feeds), images\/photos, animations, streaming video, information from commercial Web sites (e.g., eBay auctions), or information from social networks. In exemplary embodiments widgets can be built to serve up essentially any type of media or content or service desired. New widgets are immediately available to users on the CHUMBY\u2122 network when published and updates to existing widgets propagate to the users who are using them within a matter of minutes. This framework provides a network operator with the ability to provide a constantly evolving and improving set of applications and services to users CHUMBY\u2122-enabled client devices.","CHUMBY\u2122-Enabled Digital Photo Frame Device","Turning now to , there is shown a front view of a CHUMBY\u2122 enabled device in the form of a digital photo frame (hereinafter, a \u201cChumbyFrame\u2122\u201d) configured for insertion within a companion docking device.  provides an additional views of such a docking device,  provides a rear view of a radio docking device, and  another view of a docking device into which a ChumbyFrame\u2122 has been inserted.","In an exemplary embodiment, a ChumbyFrame\u2122 includes internal media storage capacity and hardware and software capable of enabling a variety of features and functionality, including:\n\n","Additional details of example hardware and associated software and processes for implementing the above, as well as other, functionality are further described below.","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates details of a system including an exemplary embodiment of the present invention as a digital photo frame device  (which may, for example, be a CHUMBY\u2122 personal audiovisual device). It is noted that device  is shown as a digital picture or photo frame, such as may be implemented as shown in ; however, other implementations, such as in cellular phones, PDAs or other mobile devices, televisions, set-top boxes, and\/or other similar or equivalent electronic devices configured to render media content.","As shown in , device  is typically configured with one or more processors , which are coupled to a memory, which may comprise one or more physical memory devices. Memory  may include memory devices such as DRAM, FLASH, SRAM, EEPROM or other memory devices as are known or developed in the art. In some embodiments memory  may include physical memory stored in the device, as well as the capability of the device  to incorporate external or portable memory  via an external memory interface , such as by using Compact Flash, Secure Digital, Memory Stick, USB or other portable memory devices. This may be done via a plug-in slot or port on device  such as is shown in  and\/or via a USB port or other memory-compatible connector.","Device  also includes a display , which may be an LCD display element or other visual display (such as, for example, is shown in ). The display  may be coupled to and\/or incorporated with user interface , which may be configured to allow a user to input information to the device  via keys, pads, touchscreen, buttons, mice or via other input elements. The user interface  may be used in conjunction with display  to allow the device to receive input as well as display visual output.","In addition, device  may include an audio element , which may allow for rendering of audible output such as voice, music, text-to-speech, and\/or other audio content. Additional peripherals  may include a microphone for receiving input, and\/or other peripherals as are know or developed in the art.","In addition, device  may include a network interface . Interface  may be used to couple device  to one or more networks  via wired or wireless connections. Interface  typically facilitates Internet connectivity to communicate with server system  to receive and send widgets and content. This may be done via Ethernet, USB, Firewire, WiFi, WiMax, Cellular, LTE, or other networking technologies and interfaces.","In a typical system, a plurality of devices  are coupled to network , which further provides connectivity to a Content and Widget Server System . This system may be part of a Chumby system as described previously herein. Widget system  may be configured to store and widgets as described previously herein, and may be further configured to provide the widgets to devices  associated with a plurality of users. Widget provision may be based on requests received from a user of a first of the plurality of devices  and\/or may be provided to a second user or additional users via associated devices at the request of the first user. In typical embodiments of a system consistent with the present invention, users of device  may be enabled to share content such as media files (audio, video, etc) as well as photos, audio clips and\/or other media content.","Content and widget provisioning and sharing may be facilitated by system , which may be Chumby system as described previously herein. In addition, system  may be configured to interface with users via a standard web interface, such as a web browser provided on a computer . This may be used to support user selection and provision of widgets and\/or other content.","In a typical implementation of device , memory  may be configured with computer code for execution on the processor to implement control as well as other functionality. This functionality may be provided in the form of modules as shown in . In this example, memory , which may comprise one or more physical memory spaces. These modules may include a widget player module  configured to play or render widgets and associated content, such as audio files, photos, video and\/or other content. In one example, the widgets and\/or associated content may be in form of Adobe Flash code modules, however, other formats may also be used.","In addition, a widget manager module  may be included in a control panel module. Additional modules may include a utilities layer , a device operating system , which may, in one example, be based on Linux. Memory  may also include spaces  for storage of widgets and may also include other functional modules for implementing utility programs or other applications. A data\/media storage space  may also be included in memory  for storage of content to be rendered on device , such as digital photos, audio files (MP3, AAC, WAV, etc.), video files, text files and\/or other content.","Utilities layer  may be configured to receive, store and provide a plurality of client software modules accessible to the widget player module . The client software modules may include one or more modules to provide a client runtime environment facilitating operation of the widget player.","Processor  is coupled to memory . This may be a direct connection to memory  and\/or may also include coupling via other electronic components in device .","In typical implementations, widgets are received at device  via network interface  from the Internet and stored in the memory . Upon receipt, a subset of the instances of the plurality of widget programs may be temporarily stored within the memory with additional widget programs subsequently received from over the network and also temporarily stored within the memory.","In a typical implementation, one or more of the widgets programs are configured so as to manage media content stored in the device's memory. This may be used to allow for the same widget program to execute different content on different user's devices and\/or on different devices associated with a single user.","The widget player  of device  may be configured to provide services furnished by one or more of a plurality of client software modules during execution of the widget programs, and the client software modules may be configured to provide a client runtime environment facilitating operation of the widget player.","As noted previously, the widget programs may be in the form of Adobe Flash code. In a typical embodiment, the widgets may be provided in the form of Flash Lite movies and one or more of the client software modules may be a Flash Lite player.","In typical implementations, one of the widget programs is an Internet radio application, with an associated client software module configured as an audio streaming utility, disposed to stream audio content to device .","In addition to digital picture or photo frame embodiments, other embodiments may be in the form of a television or television plug-in module or set-top box, a game console, a cell phone, a PDA, a network, or a portable computing device.","Memory  may include or comprise, in part, a computer program product which may be a computer readable medium. An example of this is shown as medium B of . Medium B include multiple modules to perform functionality as previously described.","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates an example process  for providing widgets to a device  from a server such as in server system . Process  may begin at stage , where a plurality of widgets may be stored in a database in server system . In addition, information may be received at system  from one or more devices  at stage . This information may come directly from the device  and\/or may be provided by a proxy or other device, such as a computer associated with the device  user.","At stage  a display may be provided to a user showing a selection of widgets compatible with the device  characteristics. These device characteristics may vary in different forms of devices , and therefore server system  may evaluate the particular device's activated characteristics and provide a list or display of appropriate widgets. Device characteristics typically include information about the device's hardware capabilities, such as processor speed, network connectivity, memory capacity, peripherals, audio and\/or video rendering capability, display sizes, as well as other device hardware characteristics. The device characteristics may also include device software characteristics such as operating systems used, available application programs, networking, and\/or other software characteristics. The device characteristics may also include connectivity characteristics, such as information regarding the available bandwidth of the device's network connectivity.","The widget compatibility may then be provided to a user via a different interface, such as via a web interface provided on a web browser of a user's computer . This may be done in the form of a display or list of compatible widgets. A typical example of widget selections are shown on the web page of Chumby Industries at www.chumby.com which can be accessed from any computer web browser.","The user may then make a selection of one or more widgets to be provided to the user's device, and the selected widgets may then be provided to the device at stage . The user's device  may then render the one or more widgets at stage . Widget rendering may be done as described previously herein.","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates a process A that may be used to render a set of widgets on a device such as device . At stage , a show widget, which references a plurality of items associated with media content, may be defined. A sequence of widgets comprising a channel may then be defined, with the show widget being included in sequence of widgets comprising the channel. The sequence of widgets may then be executed in conjunction with the user interface, with the media content being rendered upon execution of the show widget. In one implementation, one or more of the plurality of items is a digital photo album, with the photos stored in a memory of the device, such as memory .","In one implementation, a first photo album of digital photos may be stored in the memory  of the device, and a second album may be stored remotely, such as on server system  or on another site, such as online photo sites Photobucket or Flicker.","Alternately and\/or in addition, media content items may be video content in the form of video files, audio content, or other types of content. These may be stored locally or remotely. Remotely stored content may be Internet-accessible photo, audio and\/or video content, such as may be available on web sites such as Facebook, YouTube, MySpace or other online sites configured to store media content.","Modules for implementing various versions of process A may be stored on a medium, such as medium B as shown in .","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates one method of user operation of an electronic device, such as a picture frame device , to provide local and remotely stored content, such as photos stored in a plurality of digital photo albums. At stage , a user may define a first album of first digital media content that is stored within a local memory of device . At stage  a user may define a second album of content that is accessible from a remote server system, such as from system  (or another remote server system). At stage , a show widget may be defined or selected, with the show widget including or referencing the first album and said second album and\/or the associated content. The show widget may then be executed, with the user interface of device  rendering the first digital media content and the second digital media content. As noted previously, memory  may include memory stored in device  as well as memory in the form of an external memory card or other plug-in memory device. In some implementations, the local memory stored media content may be stored on the memory card or other memory device. Alternately or in addition, other locally accessible memory, such as memory accessible via a local area network (LAN) or other local network may store the digital media content.","In various implementations, multiple sets of widgets may be provided to device  in the form of different channels, such as is described previously herein. In one implementation, a user may device an album widget including media content stored in the local memory , and an additional album widget associated with remotely accessible content. These widgets may be included in a plurality of channels provided to the device .","Attention is now directed to , which illustrates a process  for associating widgets with albums. At stage , a first album widget may be defined in response to a user input, where the user input may be received through a user interface of the portable electronic device. The first album widget may include and\/or may be associated with a first set of digital media content stored within a local memory of the device. The local memory may be internal to the device and\/or may be in a removable device such as a compact flash or other type of memory card. At stage , a second album widget may be defined and associated with a second set of digital media content located remotely from the device. The content may be accessible from a remote server. At stage , the first album widget may be added to a first channel, where the first channel includes a sequence of widgets executable by the device. At stage , the second album widget may be added to a second channel, with the second channel including a second sequence of widgets. Widgets included in one or both of these channels may then be executed on the device.","In rendering the widgets on the device, widgets included in one or both of the channels may reference for playback audio files, images or photos, video files or combinations of these. This content may be stored either on the device or referenced to an external storage, such as an external website server or database.","In another embodiment, a service provider and associated system may be used to provide widget and\/or content sharing functionality. This may be done by a first user sending a request to the service provider to send media and\/or widgets to a second user, such as a chum.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0253","num":"0273"},"figref":["FIG. 98A","FIG. 94A"],"b":["9810","9820","9480","9830","9840"]},"In one example, the content may be in the form of a slideshow, with the photos stored on the server and the slideshow rendered on the second user's device in response the first user's transmission of a request to send the content. One or more digital photos may be selected for playback, and these may be selected from a digital photo library on the second user's device and\/or on the server. A user interface may be provided on the service provider's site to allow the first user and\/or the second user to select photos for rendering. This may use a drag-and-drop interface to facilitate fast selection of photos for rendering.","In another embodiment, a first user may be allowed to send an invitation to a second user, such as a chum, to receive content. An example embodiment of a process B to implement this is shown in . At stage , the service provider receives an invitation from a first user to establish an association with a second user, such as a chum. At stage , an invitation is sent to a device associated with the second user. If the second user chooses to accept, he may send an acceptance, which is received at stage . After receipt, the service provider may then send a widget to facilitate connection to the second user. The widget may be generated in response to information provided by the first system user to the one of the plurality of personal electronic devices where the device is capable of executing the instance of the widget.","The first user may also be provided with an interface to facilitate sending digital media content to the second user, and the digital media content may be uploaded to the service provider, such as at a web site of the service provider. This may be done as was described previously with respect to .","The service provider will typically allow invitations to be provided to multiple other user's associated with the first user, and in some cases, transmission of invitations may be automated based on, for example, contact information, address books, or other information provided from the first user. The service provider may also provide an interface to allow display of a profile or other information associated with the first user as well as other users. The profile may include information associated with widgets that are available from different users. This may be based on an associative relationship established between multiple users. Profile information may also facilitate a display of widgets and\/or associated content that are capable of being rendered on particular user's device or devices.","Various examples and additional details of embodiments of an electronic device, such as a CHUMBY\u2122 device are further described below in conjunction with associated drawing figures.","Attention is now directed to , which provides a block diagrammatic representation of the principal electronic hardware components of an embodiment of a ChumbyFrame\u2122 device of the present invention. As shown, the device includes a central processing unit (e.g., an ARM9 processor), memory including volatile (e.g., SDRAM) and non-volatile memory (e.g., Flash memory), 802.11b\/g network connectivity, 8\u2033 LCD touch screen, USB hub and media card, interface ports, stereo speakers, headphone out, and microphone.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0260","num":"0280"},"figref":"FIG. 33","b":"3300"},"Turning now to , there is illustrated an exemplary welcome screen  rendered by a ChumbyFrame\u2122 device following the completion of a boot sequence of the device. Screen  illustrates example widgets, shown by icons, that a user may select.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0262","num":"0282"},"figref":["FIGS. 35-37","FIG. 35","FIG. 36","FIG. 37"],"b":["3500","3600","3700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0263","num":"0283"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIGS. 35-37"],"b":"3800"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0264","num":"0284"},"figref":"FIG. 39","b":"3900"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0265","num":"0285"},"figref":"FIGS. 40-42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0266","num":"0286"},"figref":"FIGS. 43-46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0267","num":"0287"},"figref":"FIG. 47","b":"4700"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0268","num":"0288"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 47"],"b":"4800"},"Examples of Interaction with Chums Via a ChumbyFrame\u2122 Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0269","num":"0289"},"figref":"FIG. 49","b":"4900"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0270","num":"0290"},"figref":"FIGS. 50-54"},"Examples of Photo Viewing and Sharing Via a ChumbyFrame\u2122 Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0271","num":"0291"},"figref":"FIG. 55","b":"5500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0272","num":"0292"},"figref":"FIG. 56","b":"5600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0273","num":"0293"},"figref":"FIGS. 57-62"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0274","num":"0294"},"figref":"FIG. 63","b":"6300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0275","num":"0295"},"figref":"FIG. 64","b":"6400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0276","num":"0296"},"figref":"FIG. 65","b":"6500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0277","num":"0297"},"figref":"FIG. 66","b":"6600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0278","num":"0298"},"figref":"FIGS. 67-75"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0279","num":"0299"},"figref":"FIGS. 76-83"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0280","num":"0300"},"figref":"FIG. 84","b":"8400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0281","num":"0301"},"figref":"FIG. 85"},"Playing Music and Video Content Via a ChumbyFrame\u2122 Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0283","num":"0303"},"figref":"FIGS. 86-93"},"Chums Network\u2014\u201cChums\u201d forms the foundation for sharing via a ChumbyFrame\u2122 device and provides the following: the destination for drag \u2018n\u2019 drop sharing of personal photos, personal video and widgets; the interface for a user to invite others to be their chum; The interface to accept invites; the interface to configure a user's personal chum profile.","My Chums Options\u2014List of user's chums: Name; Invitations; Invite someone to be a Chum; Invite people who have accounts in network; Search profiles; Username; Last name; Invite by username, last name, email.","What is shown as part of search results?","Requester must have account and be logged in. Invite with email address (might be out of network). Import email addresses from Webmail accounts. Enter email address. Email will contain link to take them to site where they can log in or create an account. When they log in they will be taken to an \u201caccept invite\u201d area. What about reminders? Been deleted; Not been deleted.","What about withdrawing invites? Been deleted; Not been deleted","View and respond to received invitations; View all pending invitations","Possible responses\u2014Accept; Accepting an invitation makes relationship bidirectional, Ignore; Deny, with or without notification, deny always deletes from receivers list.","View status of sent invitations\u2014Accepted status; Option to Delete from history; There should be the ability to cancel a chum relationship","My Configuration: Set Policy for my profile. Who can view; What is visible to searches; What they can view as a result of a search; parental settings.","Where to put received widgets: inbox or designated channel\u2014By sender; Setting presence;","Availability for interactive sessions: chat, voice, videoOptions for a Selected chum; View selected chums profile; View names of received widgets from selected chum","View names of sent widgets; Request session: IM; Voice chat","Camera; View Presence: Available, not available","Sending Widgets\u2014Sending process to a chum. Widgets from a channel or catalog, slideshows and collections of photos can be sent. Photos and videos are uploaded to designated upload site when the widget is sent. The widget points to the media on the photo sharing site. A collection of photos are automatically made into a slideshow widget when sending. (So you can drag \u2018n\u2019 drop a collection of photos on a chum). Users will be requested to input a name or provided the option to rename. Messages can be created and attached when sending a widget that will be displayed when the widget is played","Sending process to an email address\u2014Slideshows and collections of photos can be sent to an email address. Widgets can only be sent to chums. Photos and videos are uploaded to designated upload site. An email is sent with the link to the photos embedded in the email. Email will contain some chumby promotional content and a link to chumby.com to register but the recipient will not be required to be a registered on the network to view. Over time the promotional material can get more dynamic and targeted. The created message will be embedded in the email.","Drag \u2018n\u2019 Drop rules\u2014Dropping on \u201cChums\u201d menu; System prompts for target: Email address or chum(s) name; For collection of photos: Prompt for widget name. For widgets or slideshows: provide rename option.","Option to attach a message\u2014drop on specific chum; For collection of photos: Prompt for widget name; for widgets or slideshows: provide rename option; Option to attach a message. User should be required to have a chumby account to view photos. When a widget is created to be sent it will be listed in the sent area for a chum but the widget will not be accessible by the sender. It must be clear to sender that it will not be. Messages attached to a sent widget are embedded in widget and displayed by widget","Sharing and Chum Event Notification\u2014Key events; Receipt of invitation request; Receipt of widget when it automatically appears in channel; Receipt of widget when it is waiting acceptance; New photos are waiting from photosharing site.","Notification process\u2014Icon is displayed in play window to indicate that there are pending events requiring a response. On entering control panel the status window will contain the status information and the appropriate navigation to process the events will be highlighted (like channels is highlighted today indicating that there are widgets awaiting acceptance).","Examples of Creating Widgets from local Photos and Videos\u2014A collection of local photos and videos can be sent to a chum as a slideshow widget. The Photos\/Video may be sent by dragging and dropping a collection of photos\/videos onto the chum category or a specific chum. When dropped, the collection is made into a slideshow widget and sent to the destination chum(s). A CHUMBYframe may provide the capability to have a widget that views local photos as part of a user channel. For example, when a collection of local photos and\/or videos are drag \u2018n\u2019 dropped onto a channel a local slideshow widget is put in the channel that will point to the collection. The photos are typically not moved for local slideshow widgets, and local slideshow widgets are typically only usable on the device where the photos are resident. When sent the local slideshow widgets may follow the same rules as sending a collection of local photos.","User of Local Slideshow Widgets\u2014Local slideshow widgets (\u201cshow widgets\u201d) may be created when a user drags \u2018n\u2019 drops a local collection of media onto a channel. The widget will reference local content. User will have access to the following local slideshow widgets from the chumby catalog.","Use of Internal Memory\/ALL photos\u2014when played, the \u201cInternal Memory\/ALL photos\u201d widget may displays photos from the ALL internal album using the default playing effects. If there are no photos in the internal memory the widget will display a quick message saying \u201cNo Photos in internal memory.\u201d","Inserted Memory Card\/ALL photos\u2014when played, the \u201cInserted Memory Card\/ALL photos\u201d widget will play any photos that are contained on an inserted memory card using the default playing effects. The widget may be configured to be tolerant of changing cards, removing cards in the middle, no card being inserted. If there are no photos in the inserted memory card the widget will display a quick message saying \u201cNo Photos in internal memory\u201d If multiple devices are inserted the user will be asked to define which device to use.","Use of PC on a LAN\/ALL photos\u2014When played, the \u201cPC on a LAN\/ALL photos\u201d widget may play any photos that are contained on a discovered networked PC using the default playing effects. If multiple connected PCs are detected the widget will ask for the name of the PC to use. The widget will ask the user to go to a PC and approve the connection if PCs are not enabled. The widget may be configured to be fault tolerant of connection problems and display, for example, \u201cNo photos available\u201d. A Best of chumby section may be provided to contain the Internal Memory\/ALL photos and the Inserted Memory Card\/ALL photos widget out of the box. If users plays \u201cBest of Chumby\u201d they will get their photos intermixed with chumby content.","Sending Photos\/Video as a Slideshow Widget\u2014Photos\/Video may be sent to a chum as a slideshow widget by dragging and dropping a collection of photos\/videos onto the chum category or a specific chum. When dropped on the chum category the user will be presented a modal dialogue that asks to select the destination chum(s). When dropped on a specific chum the collection will be sent to the specific chum. When the collection of photos and\/or video is located on the client the sent slideshow widget will reference the specific photos. If a selected group of photos is sent the widget will reference the specific photos that are selected. If an album or a favorite is sent the widget will reference the specific contents of the album when the widget was sent. The photos may be uploaded to the designated upload site and the sent widget references the photos and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos. When a selection of photos is sent from a photosharing site the sent widget references the photos on the photosharing site. The photos are typically not moved and the sent widget references the photos on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","When an album or favorite is sent from a photosharing site the sent widget references the container and when the widget is played it will show the current contents of the container, e.g. All my Flickr photos. The photos are typically not moved and the sent widget references the container on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","Designated Upload Site\u2014A Designated Upload Site may be used as a repository for shared photos and videos. By using an intermediary store in the cloud the receiver does not need to have access to the senders frame and the photos do not have to be downloaded to the destination frame. The user may be requested to activate the upload site during account activation on the Web Site. The activation wizard should be extendable to add multiple possible upload sites. If the designated upload site is not set the first time a user attempts to send they will be requested to create and enter their credentials. The user must be able to enter their user name and password from the client. the client, users will be informed that if they don't have a Photo bucket account that they need to go to Photo bucket and create an account before they can send to chums. From the web, the account creation process can be more guided like Flickr and Face book are. An option to set the Designated Upload Site may be made available from the photosharing site configuration screens.","Adding Local Photos and Video to a Channel\u2014Photos\/Videos may be added to a channel by dragging and dropping onto a channel. When dropped on the chumby category the user will be ask for the destination channel. If the user only has one channel it will be added to that channel. If dropped on a specific channel the resulting widget will be added to the target channel. When a local album or is added to a channel the resulting widget contains a reference to the photos and when the widget is played it will show the current contents. The photos are typically not moved and the widget references the container on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","When an album or favorite from a photosharing is added to a channel the resulting widget contains a reference to the photos and when the widget is played it will show the current contents. The photos are typically not moved and the widget references the container on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","When a selection of photos from a photosharing site is added to a channel the resulting widget points to the specific photos. The photos are typically not moved and the sent widget references the photos on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","When a selection of internal photos is added to a channel the resulting widget only points to the specific photos. The photos are typically not moved and the sent widget references the photos on the appropriate photosharing site and contains the appropriate credentials to access the photos.","Drag \u2018n\u2019 Drop\u2014When \u201cdragging\u201d destinations in left sidebar will designate if they are legal drop points and dragged icon will indicate when areas are not available for dropping","On \u201cdrop\u201d\u2014Drop modal dialogue will be displayed. The system will acknowledge that the operation has been started. The status bar will reflect status. Operations that are not allowed while the operation is being performed will be blocked. When sending, a \u201cSend Modal Dialogue\u201d is displayed when the collection is dropped onto a legitimate send target. Display type of reference: specific photos are being sent or a reference to the container is being sent.","Name\/Rename\u2014If sending a collection of photos there may be a system supplied name that the user can edit. If sending an album or favorite the name of the album or an Option to Parameterize but can send with defaults.","Widget play time; Option to attach a message; When adding to a channel, an \u201cAdd to channel\u201d dialogue is displayed when the collection is dropped onto a legitimate add to channel target. Display type of reference: specific photos are being sent or a reference to the container is being sent. Name\/Rename. If sending a collection of photos there will be a system supplied name that the user can edit. If sending an album or favorite the name of the album or option to Parameterize but can send with defaults. Widget play time\u2014Option to attach a message\u2014References Descriptions. A message will appear when the photos are \u2018dropped\u2019 that will inform the user of the type of reference that is being sent or placed in a channel. One of the following messages may be displayed","When a selected collection of photos is sent: \u201cThe \u2018x\u2019 selected photos will be sent as a slideshow widget to <chum>\u201d. When a selected collection of photos (static content) is added to a channel: \u201cThe \u2018x\u2019 selected photos will be added as a slideshow widget to <channel name> channel. When a local album or an Internet photosharing album (dynamic content) is added to a channel: \u201cAdding album <name> to channel as a slideshow widget. The widget will display the most current contents of the album when played.\u201d When an Internet photosharing album (dynamic content) is sent to a chum: \u201cSending album <name> to chum as a slideshow widget. The widget will display the most current contents of the album when played.\u201d When sending a local album to a chum (static content): \u201cphotos from album name \u201czz\u201d will be copied from the album. The slideshow widget will not reflect any new additions or changes to the album\u201d.","[Sending Photos via Email\u2014An additional feature may be to allow sending photos via email. Selecting an email address instead of a chum can be accomplished by adding the option to send to an email address when dropping on the general chums category. The same references will apply for sending by email except that instead of sending a widget an email is sent with a reference embedded in the email.","The following are product specification details of an exemplary embodiment of a CHUMBY frame consistent with the present invention.","Example of an Exemplary ChumbyFrame\u2122 Product Specification and DescRiptionSoftware Features Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0323","num":"0343"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"User can create and view photo albums"},{"entry":"A \u201cPhoto Album\u201d is a selection of photos from a selected source. A photo album can also"},{"entry":"designate other media including audio selection to \u201cplay\u201d when album is displayed."},{"entry":"Albums can be created from all popular media sources."},{"entry":"Internal memory photo album; Inserted memory cards photo album; IPod photo album"},{"entry":"PCs on a LAN via UPnP photo album; Photo albums for favorite internet sites: Flickr, Picasa,"},{"entry":"Intermix photo albums in a photo show"},{"entry":"With ChumbyFrame users will no longer be constrained to only viewing photos from one"},{"entry":"source at a time as they are with other frames."},{"entry":"Play videos from multiple sources"},{"entry":"Internal memory; Inserted memory cards; PCs on LAN via UPnP; Favorite internet sites"},{"entry":"Intermix videos with photo albums in a show."},{"entry":"Select audio to play with photo albums and shows. Configure what audio to play when an"},{"entry":"album is displayed."},{"entry":"Access to all chumby internet and local audio sources."},{"entry":"From internet sites such as SHOUTcast, radio free chumby, Pandora, . . ."},{"entry":"This will include capability to access audio from files on a dongle connected to the frame or"},{"entry":"from audio on a network connected PC via UPnP."},{"entry":"Versatile photo show effects"},{"entry":"Transition effects including a wide range of wipes and transitions."},{"entry":"Viewing effects such as Ken Burns effect"},{"entry":"Ability to show multiple photos at the same time (Mosaic)"},{"entry":"Zoom"},{"entry":"Date\/Time stamp display"},{"entry":". . ."},{"entry":"Photo sharing"},{"entry":"Upload photos from frame to photo sharing sites"},{"entry":"Send photo albums to other Chumby powered frames"},{"entry":"Send albums from internet photo sharing sites to other Chumby-powered frames."},{"entry":"Display photos sent to an email address"},{"entry":". . . And full access to the chumby network"},{"entry":"~700 Widgets today growing to over a thousand by Q3"},{"entry":"Sports"},{"entry":"Entertainment"},{"entry":"News"},{"entry":"Watchlists"},{"entry":"Social networking\/dating"},{"entry":"Casual gaming: single player\/multiple"},{"entry":"Internet audio: SHOUTcast, Pandora, MediaFly, . . ."},{"entry":"Alarms"},{"entry":"Share\/send widgets"},{"entry":"Intermix photo albums with all content from chumby network because the albums are widgets"},{"entry":"themselves"},{"entry":"ChumbyFrame Functionality Summary"},{"entry":"ChumbyFrame will support viewing local photos and videos. Supported sources:"},{"entry":"Photo sources"},{"entry":"Internal memory"},{"entry":"Inserted memory cards"},{"entry":"Inserted USB dongle"},{"entry":"IPod"},{"entry":"PCs on a LAN via UPnP"},{"entry":"Video sources"},{"entry":"Internal memory"},{"entry":"Inserted memory cards"},{"entry":"Inserted USB dongle"},{"entry":"PCs on a LAN via UPnP photo album"},{"entry":"Local photos and videos will be displayed in single album viewing mode or they can be made"},{"entry":"into widgets that are played in a channel standalone or with other widgets."},{"entry":"Each photo source will be represented as a unique album that can be viewed."},{"entry":"Albums can be added to channels as album widgets and played by the widget player."},{"entry":"There will always be a local \u201cphoto channel\u201d that does not require connecting to the internet to"},{"entry":"be played."},{"entry":"Local media widgets will be accessible without connecting and activating."},{"entry":"The local photo channel can be played in both disconnected and connected mode."},{"entry":"Photo album widgets can be added to any channel when connected."},{"entry":"Named groups of internal photos can be created."},{"entry":"Internal Album widgets can be a named group. The name of the widget will be the named"},{"entry":"group"},{"entry":"Mulitple named groups can be added to a channel as different widgets."},{"entry":"The local photo album (implemented as widgets) will be configured locally with wizards which"},{"entry":"will guide the user through configuration processes and via menus."},{"entry":"In a simple photo viewing usage model a user will turn on the device, plug in their memory"},{"entry":"card, and ChumbyFrame will start displaying photos from the inserted memory card."},{"entry":"The local photo widgets can be added to other channels and intermixed with other chumby"},{"entry":"widgets."},{"entry":"Any chumby widgets can be added to the photo channel and played with the local photo"},{"entry":"widgets."},{"entry":"Inserting a memory with photo's will cause the corresponding album (internal widget) to start"},{"entry":"displaying the photos"},{"entry":"On insertion, the frame will switch to the local photo channel and switch to the appropriate"},{"entry":"photo widget."},{"entry":"Internet photo viewing will be enabled by adding photo sharing widgets to the photo channel."},{"entry":"Web based wizards will facilitate configuring widgets as albums and adding to the user photo"},{"entry":"channel."},{"entry":"ChumbyFrame must be connected to the internet view internet photos"},{"entry":"Internet photo widgets can be intermixed with local photo widgets so photo shows can contain"},{"entry":"photos from both local and internet sources."},{"entry":"Chumbyframe must be connected and activated to send\/receive photos, access internet"},{"entry":"audio or access any other chumby network content."},{"entry":"When the frame is connected contents of photo channel and local widget configurations are"},{"entry":"reflected on user's account on the web."},{"entry":"Remote control is usable for TBD control panel operations and photo album control."},{"entry":"Chumbyframe will support video chat as an option. This will be defined in a separate"},{"entry":"document that will also include all messaging capabilities."},{"entry":"All other chumbysquishy and chumbynetwork capabilities will be supported except for the"},{"entry":"following"},{"entry":"Chumbyframe does not support an accelerometer"},{"entry":"High Level Flows"},{"entry":"The first time the frame is powered on the intro movie is played and a setup wizard provides"},{"entry":"configuration options"},{"entry":"Connect to network"},{"entry":"Activate and configure chumby network"},{"entry":"Select and configure internet photo albums"},{"entry":"Select and configure chumby network content"},{"entry":"Configure local photo album viewing."},{"entry":"After first time, when ChumbyFrame is powered on, the default operation is to resume playing"},{"entry":"the channel that was active when the device was powered off."},{"entry":"If the device was playing local photos from the local photo channel when powered off, when"},{"entry":"turned back on, the device will continue playing the local photos."},{"entry":"chumbyFrame can be configured to loop on demo to show off frame features."},{"entry":"Activated\/deactivated by an easter egg on remote control"},{"entry":"Operations during play: Simple case is while frame is cycling through local photo widgets in"},{"entry":"photo channel but this applies to normal operation when ChumbyFrame is playing a channel with"},{"entry":"widgets."},{"entry":"Touching screen: Widget specific."},{"entry":"All photo album widgets will display options including thumbnail displays, photo management"},{"entry":"and configuration options."},{"entry":"Press CP switch: invokes control panel"},{"entry":"Displays current channel"},{"entry":"User can select photo\/wizard to run wizards to change photo options"},{"entry":"User can select video\/wizard to run frame wizards to change video options"},{"entry":"User can use as a chumby"},{"entry":"Insert memory card: Display photos from memory card album."},{"entry":"ChumbyFrame will automatically switch to \u201cPhotos\u201d channel and play \u201cmemory card album\u201d"},{"entry":"widget."},{"entry":"On insertion user will be given options:"},{"entry":"Play as part of show (cycle through widgets in channel)"},{"entry":"Loop on photos (stay in widget)"},{"entry":"Run memory card album configurator"},{"entry":"Can configure so it starts playing without asking any options."},{"entry":"Insert iPod: Display photos from iPod album."},{"entry":"(basically same as Insert memory card)"},{"entry":"Boot and Wizard Flows"},{"entry":"First time boot scenario"},{"entry":"If demo enabled loop on demo"},{"entry":"If not in Demo mode:"},{"entry":"Play walkthrough video"},{"entry":"Asks if user want to connect and activate: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Run connection wizard to connect"},{"entry":"If not registered ask if user wants to register: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Run activation wizard on frame"},{"entry":"Guides user to go to site and create account, activate and configure photo widgets."},{"entry":"If No"},{"entry":"Inform user how to activate later"},{"entry":"Exit"},{"entry":"Run photo configuration wizard"},{"entry":"Provide option to select from any the following"},{"entry":"Manage (copy et. al) and configure internal memory album"},{"entry":"Configure memory card album"},{"entry":"Configure networked device album"},{"entry":"Configure iPod album"},{"entry":"Select internet albums"},{"entry":"Start album play"},{"entry":"Cycles through all selected photo albums: internal memory, inserted memory, PC, iPod,"},{"entry":"internet . . ."},{"entry":"If no album enabled default is internal demo photos"},{"entry":"Photo Album Configuration Wizard (on frame)"},{"entry":"Display source status and provide option to select from any the following"},{"entry":"Manage (copy et. al) and configure internal memory album"},{"entry":"Configure memory card album"},{"entry":"Configure networked device album"},{"entry":"Configure iPod album"},{"entry":"Select internet albums"},{"entry":"Exit configurator"},{"entry":"Manage\/Configure internal memory photo album"},{"entry":"Copy Photos: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Select source"},{"entry":"Inserted memory card"},{"entry":"IPod"},{"entry":"Media on LAN"},{"entry":"Guide user through connection and navigation as appropriate"},{"entry":"Display thumbnails"},{"entry":"Provide selection option"},{"entry":"Provide ability to copy \u201call\u201d or \u201cselected\u201d"},{"entry":"Manage Photo in Internal Memory: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Display Thumbnails"},{"entry":"Provide selection options"},{"entry":"Provide ability to delete \u201cselected\u201d or \u201cAll\u201d"},{"entry":"Include internal photo album in show: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Display: Frame will display album if any selected photos are stored in internal memory"},{"entry":"If no: Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Display thumbnails of photo in internal memory and display selection options"},{"entry":"\u201cPlay All\u201d is default"},{"entry":"Provide ability to select thumbnails and play selected"},{"entry":"Guide through settings"},{"entry":"Transitions"},{"entry":"Display intervals"},{"entry":"Order"},{"entry":"date\/time stamp display setting"},{"entry":"Single\/multiple display"},{"entry":"image format"},{"entry":"Do you want to play audio when displaying photos from internal memory: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Select audio source (use same interface as alarms)"},{"entry":"Exit to top level configurator menu: y\/n"},{"entry":"Configure inserted memory card photo album"},{"entry":"Include inserted photo album in show: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Display: Frame will display album if memory card with photos is inserted in frame"},{"entry":"If no: Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Display thumbnails and display selection options"},{"entry":"Play all is default"},{"entry":"Provide ability to select for play selected"},{"entry":"Guide through settings"},{"entry":"Transitions"},{"entry":"Display intervals"},{"entry":"Order"},{"entry":"date\/time stamp display setting"},{"entry":"Single\/multiple display"},{"entry":"image format"},{"entry":"Do you want to play audio when displaying photos form inserted memory: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Select audio source (use same interface as alarms)"},{"entry":"Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Configure iPod photo album"},{"entry":"Include iPod photo album in show: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Display: Frame will display album if iPod with selected photos is connected to frame"},{"entry":"If no: Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Discover if iPod is connected"},{"entry":"If iPod not connected request for user to connect iPod and wait for connection"},{"entry":"If exit: Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Display thumbnails and display selection options"},{"entry":"play all is default"},{"entry":"Provide ability to select for play selected"},{"entry":"Guide through settings"},{"entry":"Transitions"},{"entry":"Display intervals"},{"entry":"Order"},{"entry":"date\/time stamp display setting"},{"entry":"Single\/multiple display"},{"entry":"Do you want to play audio when displaying photos from iPod: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Select audio source (use same interface as alarms)"},{"entry":"Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Configure networked device photo album"},{"entry":"Include Networked device photo album in show: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Display: Frame will display album if selected network device is available with selected photos"},{"entry":"If no: Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Guide user through navigation and selection process"},{"entry":"Discover and display available networked devices"},{"entry":"Display status during discovery process"},{"entry":"Provide appropriate navigator: folders, Tags, dates, etc."},{"entry":"Ask user to select desired device"},{"entry":"Display thumbnails and display selection options"},{"entry":"play all is default"},{"entry":"Provide ability to select for play selected"},{"entry":"Guide through settings"},{"entry":"Transitions"},{"entry":"Display intervals"},{"entry":"Order"},{"entry":"date\/time stamp display setting"},{"entry":"Single\/multiple display"},{"entry":"image format"},{"entry":"Do you want to play audio when displaying photos from networked device: y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes"},{"entry":"Select audio source (use same interface as alarms)"},{"entry":"Exit to top level configurator menu"},{"entry":"Configure internet albums"},{"entry":"If not connected user is asked to connect using connection wizard"},{"entry":"If not activated user is asked to activate using activation wizard"},{"entry":"User is provided list of available internet albums to select and make available in photo"},{"entry":"channel"},{"entry":"Provide option to perform local configuration as available on each internet source."},{"entry":"Video Configuration Wizard (on frame)"},{"entry":"Substantially the same as Photo configuration"},{"entry":"Network Connection Wizard (on frame)"},{"entry":"See existing connection wizard"},{"entry":"Activation Wizard (on frame)"},{"entry":"Runs existing activation wizard"},{"entry":"Guides user to go to site and create an account, activate and configure photo widgets."},{"entry":"Web Site Configuration Flows"},{"entry":"User selects \u201cCreate Account\u201d on Website"},{"entry":"Account creation process"},{"entry":"Activate frame y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Activation flow"},{"entry":"Configure favorite internet photo albums y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Internet Photo Album configuration wizard"},{"entry":"If No:"},{"entry":"Home"},{"entry":"If no:"},{"entry":"Home"},{"entry":"Existing user selects \u201cActivate Frame\u201d"},{"entry":"Activation flow"},{"entry":"Configure favorite internet photo albums y\/n"},{"entry":"If yes:"},{"entry":"Internet Photo Album configuration wizard"},{"entry":"If No:"},{"entry":"Home"},{"entry":"User selects \u201cconfigure photo albums\u201d"},{"entry":"Ask user to select active device"},{"entry":"Execute Photo Album configuration wizard"},{"entry":"User is provided option to add other chumby network content to local photo album"},{"entry":"Manage channel"},{"entry":"Subscribe to widget groups"},{"entry":"Internet Photo Album configuration wizard"},{"entry":"Provide options to select photo widgets to configure"},{"entry":"Facebook photos"},{"entry":"Flickr"},{"entry":"Picassa"},{"entry":". . ."},{"entry":"Photo wizard configurator"},{"entry":"Execute selected widget specific configuration movie"},{"entry":"Add widget as albums in local \u201cphoto\u201d channel"},{"entry":"Contents of local photo channel are reflected on site"},{"entry":"Configuration of local photo albums are reflected on site"},{"entry":"Remote control"},{"entry":"The remote control will be usable for all Control Panel operations"},{"entry":"The remote control will be usable to control viewing local photo widget albums."},{"entry":"The remote control will be usable to control viewing all chumby created photo sharing widgets"},{"entry":"We will define an open API for Widgets to get remote control events"},{"entry":"Media Sharing"},{"entry":"User's will be able to share photo's from chumbyframe"},{"entry":"The following photo sharing capaabilites wil exist"},{"entry":"Uploaded to your favorite photosharing site"},{"entry":"From inserted memory card"},{"entry":"Album from internal memory"},{"entry":"Users can send a photo album to a chum and the chumby will manage picture transfer"},{"entry":"details. For an internal album where photos are stored on the frame we need to upload the photos to"},{"entry":"a photo sharing site."},{"entry":"Send individual photo with a message."},{"entry":"Chumby will establish relationships with photo sharing sites to allow for chumbynetwork"},{"entry":"members to use these sites for photo sharing"},{"entry":"Exemplary Hardware Feature Summary"},{"entry":"Two-piece design, featuring a core unit and"},{"entry":"two dock options."},{"entry":"Core Unit"},{"entry":"3.5\u2033 320 \u00d7 240 touchscreen LCD"},{"entry":"400 MHZ ARM9 CPU"},{"entry":"128 MB DDR SDRAM"},{"entry":"2 Gb NAND FLASH"},{"entry":"3-axis accelerometer"},{"entry":"Integrated 1 W mono speaker"},{"entry":"Microphone input"},{"entry":"Dimmable backlight"},{"entry":"802.11 b\/g wifi"},{"entry":"RTC with battery backup"},{"entry":"Service authentication via cryptoprocessor and"},{"entry":"unique branding electronic ID"},{"entry":"Top button for control panel access"},{"entry":"1.5 hour rechargeable Li-ion battery"},{"entry":"Connector to dock unit for peripheral breakout"},{"entry":"Size: 83 mm (w) \u00d7 90 mm (h) \u00d7 13 mm (d)"},{"entry":"\u201cMini Dock\u201d Unit"},{"entry":"Headphone\/line output"},{"entry":"1x USB Type A female for expansion"},{"entry":"Dock status LED"},{"entry":"+5 V Wall-adapter for charging voltage"},{"entry":"\u201cRadio Dock\u201d Unit"},{"entry":"High fi delity 4 W mono speaker"},{"entry":"Headphone\/line output"},{"entry":"1x USB Type A female for expansion"},{"entry":"Dock status LED"},{"entry":"+5 V Wall-adapter for charging voltage"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"It is noted that in various embodiments the present invention relates to one or more processes such as are described and\/or illustrated herein. These processes are typically implemented in one or more modules as are described herein, and such modules may include computer software stored on a computer readable medium and\/or in a computer memory or other instruction storage device, including instructions configured to be executed by one or more microprocessors or other digital instructions execution mechanisms to perform the described process steps or stages.","It is further noted that, while the processes described and illustrated herein may include particular steps or stages, it is apparent that other processes including fewer, more, or different stages than those described and shown are also within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, as noted previously, the processes and associated modules shown herein are provided for purposes of illustration, not limitation.","Some embodiments of the present invention may include computer software and\/or computer hardware\/software combinations configured to implement one or more processes or functions associated with the present invention such as those described herein. These embodiments may be in the form of modules implementing functionality in software and\/or hardware software combinations. Embodiments may also take the form of a computer storage product with a computer-readable medium having computer code thereon for performing various computer-implemented operations, such as operations related to functionality as described herein. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention, or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts, or they may be a combination of both.","Examples of computer-readable media within the spirit and scope of the present invention include, but are not limited to: magnetic media such as hard disks; optical media such as CD-ROMs, DVDs and holographic devices; magneto-optical media; and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code, such as programmable microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits (\u201cASICs\u201d), programmable logic devices (\u201cPLDs\u201d) and ROM and RAM memory devices. Examples of computer code may include machine code, such as produced by a compiler or other machine code generation mechanisms, scripting programs, and\/or other code or files containing higher-level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter or other code execution mechanism.","Computer code may be comprised of one or more modules executing a particular process or processes to provide useful results, and the modules may communicate with one another via means known or developed in the art. For example, some embodiments of the invention may be implemented using assembly language, Java, C, C#, C++, scripting languages, and\/or other programming languages and software development tools as are known or developed in the art. Other embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardwired circuitry in place of, or in combination with, machine-executable software instructions.","The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed; obviously, many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications. They thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a better understanding of the nature of the features of the invention, reference should be made to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 17A-17E","FIGS. 22-25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 19A-19H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 22A-22H","FIGS. 16 and 20-21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIGS. 23A-23B","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 25-28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 31A","FIG. 30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 31B","FIG. 30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 31C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIGS. 35-37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIGS. 35-37"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIGS. 40-42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 43-46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 47"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 47"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIGS. 50-54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 56"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIGS. 57-62"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 63"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 64"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 65"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 66"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIGS. 67-75"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIGS. 76-83"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 84"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 85"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIGS. 86-93"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 94A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 94B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 94C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 95"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 96A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 96B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 97"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 98A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 98B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
