---
title: Cherry tree named ‘Glencrest’
abstract: The present invention relates to a cherry tree, , and more particularly to a new and distinct variety broadly characterized by a medium size, moderately vigorous, hardy, self-unfruitful, productive and regular bearing tree. The fruit matures under the ecological conditions described in mid-May, with first picking on May 10, 2014. The fruit is uniformly medium in size, sweet in flavor, oblate in shape, fairly freestone in type, firm in texture, red in flesh color, very dark red in skin color, and it has a short but strongly attached stem. The variety is very useful to cross pollinate ‘Glenred’ (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=PP027369&OS=PP027369&RS=PP027369
owner: 
number: PP027369
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["Botanical classification: ","Varietal denomination: \u2018GLENCREST\u2019.","In a continuing effort to improve the quality of shipping fruits, we, the inventors, typically hybridize a large number of peach, nectarine, plum, apricot, and cherry seedlings each year. We also grow a smaller number of open pollinated seeds of each of these fruits, usually to capture recessive traits. The present invention relates to a new and distinct variety of cherry tree, which has been denominated varietally as \u2018Glencrest\u2019.","During a typical blooming season we isolate as seed parents individual cherry trees by covering them with screen houses. A hive of bees is placed inside each such house, and bouquets to provide pollen from different cherry trees are placed in buckets near the trees approximately every two days for the duration of the bloom. During 2002 one such house containing \u2018Glenred\u2019 (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859) cherry tree was crossed by us in this manner. To pollinate this cherry, we selected bouquets from several sources of cherry trees without keeping specific written details. Upon reaching maturity the fruit from this cherry tree was harvested and the seeds were removed, cracked, stratified and germinated as a group with the label \u2018Glenred House\u2019. They were grown as seedlings on their own root in our greenhouse, and upon reaching dormancy transplanted to a cultivated area of our experimental orchard located near Le Grand, Calif. in Merced County (San Joaquin Valley). During the summer of 2008 the claimed variety was selected by us as a single tree from the group of seedlings described above. Subsequent to origination of the present variety of cherry tree, we asexually reproduced it by budding and grafting in the experimental orchard described above, and such reproductions were true to the original tree in all respects. The reproduction of the variety included the use of \u2018Colt\u2019 (unpatented) rootstock, upon which the present variety was compatible and true to type.","The present variety is most similar to its seed parent, \u2018Glenred\u2019 (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859) cherry, by being self-unfruitful, by having reniform glands, by being productive, and by producing fruit that is dark red in skin color, red in flesh color, oblate in shape, firm, sweet, and fairly crack resistant, but is distinguished therefrom by blooming about four days later, by possessing different s-alleles to make it useful as a cross pollinator, and by producing cherries that are somewhat smaller in size, that ripen about two days later, that are more heat tolerant, and that have a shorter stem that is more firmly attached to the fruit.","The present variety is also similar to \u2018Glenrock\u2019 (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 15,512) cherry, by being self-unfruitful, by having reniform glands, by blooming in mid March, by being productive, and by producing fruit that is dark red in skin color, partially red in flesh color, oblate in shape, firm, sweet, fairly freestone, and fairly crack resistant, but is distinguished therefrom by producing cherries that have a shorter stem and that ripen about ten day earlier.","In summary, the present cherry variety is characterized by a medium size, moderately vigorous, hardy, self-unfruitful, productive and regular bearing tree. The fruit matures under the ecological conditions described in mid-May, with first picking on May 10, 2014. The fruit is uniformly medium in size, sweet in flavor, oblate in shape, fairly freestone in type, firm in texture, red in flesh color, very dark red in skin color, and it has a short but strongly attached stem. The variety is very useful to cross pollinate \u2018Glenred\u2019 (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859).","Referring now more specifically to the pomological characteristics of this new and distinct variety of cherry tree, the following has been observed under the ecological conditions prevailing near Le Grand, Merced County (San Joaquin Valley), Calif., and was developed at the state of firm ripe on May 14, 2014, on the original tree during its twelfth growing season. All major color code designations are by reference to the Inter-Society Color Council, National Bureau of Standards. Common color names are also used occasionally.","It is to be noted that 2014 was an abnormal year with drought conditions existing in California. The unusually clear, warm, and dry weather in January led to a very low amount of acquired chilling units, an earlier than normal blooming season, and an earlier than normal ripening season for the entire spring and summer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["Seed parent: \u2018Glenred\u2019 cherry (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859).","Pollen parent: Unknown."]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["Size: Medium, maintained to a height of 11\u2032 [3.35 m.] and a spread of 7\u2032 [2.13 m.] after twelve growing seasons utilizing typical pruning.","Vigor: Medium vigor, responding typically to irrigation and fertilization. The plant should be grown on a standard commercial rootstock for production purposes.","Growth: Upright and medium dense.","Form: Central leader.","Hardiness: Hardy with respect to central California winters.","Heat tolerance: Observed to perform adequately in typical central California climatic conditions, which typically include extended periods of heat.","Drought tolerance: Variety is developed for commercial orchards and requires regular irrigation.","Production: Productive.","Fertility: Self-sterile, must be cross pollinated by another early to mid seasonal blooming cherry variety, such as \u2018Glenred\u2019 (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859). The present variety is also a very good cross-pollinator for \u2018Glenred\u2019.","Bearing: Regular bearer, with no crop failures observed.","Trunk:\n    \n    ","Branches:\n    \n    ","Leaves:\n    \n    ","Flower buds:\n    \n    ","Flowers: Perfect, complete, perigynous, usually a single pistil, typically about twenty stamens, five sepals and petal locations alternately positioned.\n    \n    "]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":["Maturity when described: Firm ripe, May 14, 2014.","Date of first picking: May 10, 2014.","Date of last picking: May 18, 2014.","Size: Uniform, medium.\n    \n    ","Form: Uniform, symmetrical, oblate.\n    \n    ","Suture: A Blackish red [21. blackish R] line located in a shallow trough, extending from the stem cavity to just beyond the apex.","Ventral surface: Rounded, lipped slightly toward the apex on both sides.","Lips: Equal.","Cavity: Flaring, rounded, suture showing on one side.\n    \n    ","Base: Rounded, cordate if viewed parallel to the suture.","Apex: Rounded, to slightly cordate if viewed parallel to the suture.","Pistil point: A Grayish yellow [90. gy.Y] dot.","Stem: Short.\n    \n    ","Skin:\n    \n    ","Flesh:\n    \n    "]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0026","list-style":"none"},"li":["Type: Fairly freestone.","Form: Oval.","Hilum: Narrow, oblong.","Base: Oblique.","Apex: Acute.","Sides: Equal.","Surface: Fairly smooth.","External color of stone: Light yellowish brown [76. l.yBr].","Pit wall color when cracked: Pale orange yellow [73. p.OY].","Cavity surface color: Dark orange yellow [72. d.OY].","Average pit wall thickness: 1\/16\u2033 [1.6 mm.]","Average width: \u215c\u2033 [9.5 mm.].","Average length: 7\/16\u2033 [11.1 mm.].","Average breadth: 5\/16\u2033 [7.9 mm.].","Tendency to split: None observed.","Kernel:\n    \n    "]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0029","list-style":"none"},"li":["Market: Fresh market and long distance shipping.","Keeping quality: Good, fruit quality observed to remain in good condition after 21 days in standard cold room at 36\u00b0 Fahrenheit [2\u00b0 Celsius].","Shipping quality: Good.","Resistance to insects: No unusual susceptibilities noted.","Resistance to diseases: No unusual susceptibilities noted."]}},"Although the new variety of cherry tree possesses the described characteristics under the ecological conditions at Le Grand, Calif., in the central part of the San Joaquin Valley, it is to be expected that variations in these characteristics may occur when farmed in areas with different climatic conditions, different soil types, and\/or varying cultural practices."],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE VARIETY","SUMMARY OF VARIETY","POMOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS","PARENTAGE","TREE","FRUIT","STONE","USE","OTHER NOTES"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DRAWING","p":"The accompanying photograph displays three whole fruits with the stems attached, four whole fruits detached from the stems to exhibit the skin color and form, two half fruits sectioned to reveal the flesh and fibers, an individual stone, two insets depicting flowers and buds, a typical tip shoot, and several leaves, all typical of the subject variety."},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
