---
title: Wafer scale oblique angle plasma etching
abstract: Wafer scale oblique angle etching of a semiconductor substrate is performed in a conventional plasma etch chamber by using a fixture that supports a multiple number of separate Faraday cages. Each cage is formed to include an angled grid surface and is positioned such that it will be positioned over a separate one of the die locations on the wafer surface when the fixture is placed over the wafer. The presence of the Faraday cages influences the local electric field surrounding each wafer die, re-shaping the local field to be disposed in alignment with the angled grid surface. The re-shaped plasma causes the reactive ions to follow a linear trajectory through the plasma sheath and angled grid surface, ultimately impinging the wafer surface at an angle. The selected geometry of the Faraday cage angled grid surface thus determines the angle at with the reactive ions will impinge the wafer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659797&OS=09659797&RS=09659797
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09659797
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140917
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION, INCLUDING EXAMPLES"],"p":["This invention was developed under contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U. S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.","Modern integrated circuits (ICs) are fabricated in a planar fashion using \u201ctop-down\u201d processes, where the reaction species is directed downward onto a substrate surface in a direction normal to the semiconductor substrate. During a conventional etching process, for example, a plasma is used to accelerate etchant species ions toward the substrate, where the ions are used to etch away unwanted material. The bulk of the etchant acceleration occurs in a \u201cplasma sheath\u201d, the shape of which is determined by the etch chamber geometry and the local topography of the substrate.","To facilitate increased integration and speed of semiconductor devices, a geometrical progression of continuously scaling semiconductor devices (e.g., decreasing transistor size, increasing transistor density, etc.) has emerged. Reducing the size of a semiconductor device and\/or a feature size of a semiconductor device can provide improved speed, performance, density, cost per unit, etc., of resultant integrated circuits. However, as the size of semiconductor devices and device features have been reduced, the planar type of fabrication techniques mentioned above are being challenged in their ability to produce modules comprising a plurality of integrated circuits located with high proximity to each other. For example, field effect transistors (FETs) are currently being fabricated with a gate feature that is only 22 nm wide\u2014which is only a few tens of atoms in total. Clearly, the limits of lateral scaling of devices, and their manufacture, are being reached. Accordingly, the Semiconductor Industry Association has recognized the limits of conventional planar manufacture of semiconductor devices and has identified three-dimensional integrated circuit (3D-IC) fabrication as a core enabler in keeping pace with Moore's Law.","While various integrated circuits currently being manufactured are referred to as \u201cthree dimensional\u201d, they are truly formed of a multiple number of planar (i.e., two-dimensional) layers that are stacked one on top of another. As such, these circuits are fabricated using standard top-down planar process flow techniques, with through-wafer vias used to attach components on different layers to each other. Alternatively, wafer-to-wafer bonding may be used (in a face-to-face configuration) to provide electrical and\/or optical connections between elements on adjacent planar structures.","The conventional processes used to form these multi-layer stacks cannot, however, be extended to perform process steps on the \u201cvertical\u201d walls of a structure, which is required to capture 3D volumetric scaling of transistor density. Therefore, in order to enable true 3D-IC fabrication, where the functional semiconductor devices are fabricated on surfaces which are not parallel to the wafer surface, new approaches to semiconductor device manufactured have to be engendered.","A new fabrication method for creating features on interior sidewalls of 3D semiconductor structures is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 8,197,887, issued on Jun. 12, 2012 and assigned to the assignee of this application. Here, a membrane exhibiting a pre-defined pattern is placed over an opening (cavity) of an individual die (referred to as a \u201cunit cell\u201d). A source of etchant (or material to be deposited) is oriented at a defined angle with respect to the unit cell, with the reactant species passing through the patterned membrane at an angle other than 90\u00b0, allowing for the pattern (etched or deposited material) to be re-created on a vertical sidewall of the unit cell. By moving the source into different orientations with respect to the unit cell, patterning of all interior sidewalls may be obtained.","The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.","Various embodiments of the present invention as described in detail herein relate to a fixture that may be utilized with standard planar plasma etch apparatus to provide for oblique etching of multiple die while yet in wafer form. In particular, wafer scale oblique angle etching of a semiconductor substrate is performed in a conventional plasma etch chamber by using a fixture that supports a multiple number of separate Faraday cages, each cage being formed to include an angled grid surface. When the fixture is in position over the wafer, each Faraday cage surrounds a separate one of the die locations on the wafer surface. The presence of the Faraday cages influences the local electric field surrounding each wafer die, essentially shielding each die from the plasma-induced electric field. In particular, the plasma sheath in the vicinity of each Faraday cage will be re-shaped to be disposed in alignment with the angled grid surface. The re-shaped plasma causes the reactive ions to follow a linear trajectory through the plasma sheath and then pass into the \u201cshielded\u201d Faraday cage. In accordance with the present invention, therefore, the angled grid surfaces of each Faraday cage function to change the conventional \u201ctop-down\u201d etching process into an oblique angle etching process, the angle determined by the geometry of the Faraday cage.","The inventive fixture is configured as a metal support plate, with a plurality of Faraday cages formed on the metal plate and arranged in an area pattern that matches the positions of the die on the wafer. The fixture is positioned (and aligned) over the top surface of the wafer. A conventional plasma source may be used. However, the presence of the Faraday cages will re-shape the \u201cplasma sheath\u201d and re-orient the angle at which the etchant species will impinge each die on the wafer surface, since the etchant species will pass through the grid surface of the Faraday cages at a direction normal to the grid surface.","In some embodiments, only selected die are covered with Faraday cages (leaving, perhaps, \u2018corner\u2019 die exposed for control purposes). It is also possible to incorporate the Faraday cage fixture into the conventional clamp component that is used to hold the substrate in place within the etch chamber. Alternatively, the Faraday cage fixture may take the form of a separate component housed within the otherwise conventional plasma etch chamber. In yet another embodiment, the Faraday cage fixture may be attached to the wafer before it is introduced into the chamber itself. Regardless of the ordering of the steps, the inclusion of the inventive fixture allows for wafer scale etching of oblique-angled features across a wafer within a conventional \u201ctop down\u201d plasma etch chamber.","In one exemplary application, it is possible to utilize the Faraday cage-based oblique angle etching fixture of the present invention in combination with the vertical sidewall patterning techniques as discussed in the above-cited '887 patent in order to provide the various angles required for etchant to pass through the membrane and perform vertical sidewall patterning within a unit cell.","Plasma etch chambers for processing semiconductor substrates are well-known in the art and can be exemplified by reference to prior art plasma etch chamber  of . As shown, a semiconductor substrate (wafer)  to be etched is mounted on an RF-powered cathode support pedestal (platen) , which is positioned within a vacuum chamber . A gas distribution plate  allows for etchant plasma precursor gas to enter vacuum chamber  from an external gas source . Gas distribution plate  may also function as the anode of the arrangement, and is grounded as shown. A metal clamp ring  (shown in cut-away fashion) overlies wafer  during processing, and is supported on pedestal  when in position over wafer . The arrows in  illustrate the movement of clamp ring  to be in position over wafer , where ring  will hold the outer edge of wafer  in fixed position, leaving the individual die locations (not shown) on wafer  exposed for processing. Once wafer  is in place, the precursor gas is introduced into vacuum chamber  and the RF system is energized. The combination of the RF field present in the vacuum chamber with the precursor gas creates an ionized plasma of a reactive species that can then be used to etch the planar substrate surface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["1","7","2","3","2","8","2","7","2","2","3","8","7","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"10"},"Referring to , fixture  is shown as comprising a plurality of individual Faraday cages  supported on a metallic support plate . Each Faraday cage  is also formed of a conductive material, and in this particular embodiment takes the form of a triangle that includes an angled surface . As shown, angled surface  comprises a grid configuration, including apertures that allow for the passage of ions through Faraday cage  and onto the wafer surface. At times, the \u201cgrid\u201d surface of a Faraday cage may also be referred to as a \u201cscreen\u201d or \u201cwire mesh\u201d.","An enlarged side view of an exemplary Faraday cage is depicted in the inset to , and is useful in understanding the principles of the present invention. As is well-known in the art, a Faraday cage is simply a closed box of a conductive material, including a conductive grid formed across the top of it. The Faraday cage shields the space inside the cage against the electric field that is present in the plasma surrounding the cage, creating a re-shaped plasma sheath P as shown that follows the contour of angled grid surface . Under these circumstances, ions entering plasma sheath P will be oriented to follow the electric field lines within the plasma sheath, and pass through angled grid surface  in a direction normal to surface , as shown in the inset to . Once the ions pass through grid surface , they will enter the shielded interior region of Faraday cage , where no electric field is present. Thus, in the absence of an electric field, the ions will maintain their directionality normal to angled grid surface  and impinge the wafer surface at this angle.","With an understanding of these principles of operation with respect to a Faraday cage, a discussion of applying these principles to providing wafer scale oblique angle plasma etching follows.","As shown in , Faraday cages  are disposed in a matrix-type of organization, with the individual cages defined as , i being the \u201crow\u201d of the matrix, and j being the \u201ccolumn\u201d of the matrix. In particular, the matrix layout of Faraday cages  is created to correspond to the position of the separate die being fabricated on a semiconductor wafer (not shown). In the particular case illustrated in , the geometry of Faraday cages  is that of a right triangle, with one of the mutually perpendicular legs lying contiguous with support plate . In this orientation, grid surfaces  form a 45\u00b0 angle with respect to the plane of support plate  (and an underlying wafer during processing). In the embodiment as shown in , fixture  includes a pair of openings, denoted and , where Faraday cages  are not placed. In some cases, it may be desired to leave selected die locations \u201cexposed\u201d; that is, not covered by a Faraday cage. This may be for process control regions, or the like.","In order to perform wafer scale etching, fixture  as shown in  is electrically coupled to the cathode plate of the associated etch chamber. The platen supporting the wafer is typically used as the cathode in a plasma etching process. The individual Faraday cages  are therefore also coupled to the cathode by virtue of their conductive connection to metallic support plate . When the plasma etchant species is created in the vacuum chamber in the presence of the RF field, the presence of the multiple Faraday cages  will shield the plurality of dies formed on the wafer, with each individual Faraday cage surrounding and shielding a separate and distinct die. The presence of multiple Faraday cages  will re-shape the plasma sheath in the vicinity of each cage such that the local portion of the plasma sheath will be aligned with each angled grid surface , in the manner shown in the inset to . As a result, the ions will pass through each grid surface  at a direction normal to the grid plane and then impinge the wafer surface along the angle defined by the angular separation between grid surface  and the planar wafer surface, particularly impinging each of the die formed on the wafer surface. In accordance with the present invention, therefore, the incident angle of the ions on the wafer surface is no longer the conventional vertical direction associated with conventional planar \u201ctop down\u201d processing, but is controlled by the orientation of the angled gird surfaces of the multiple Faraday cages disposed on the fixture.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 6"],"b":["1","10","8","2","10","12","8","10","2","10","2","3","16","12","10","2","12","8","2","3"]},"Once fixture  is in place over wafer , fixture  is coupled to the cathode potential of the chamber. Typically, a connection is made between metallic support plate  of fixture  and platen  to form this cathode connection. At this point, the RF source is activated (not shown), a precursor gas is introduced into the chamber, and a plasma etching process is initiated.  illustrates the direction that the plasma ions will travel as they pass through the multiple angled grid surfaces , the direction traveled by the ions through grid surfaces  as described in detail above.","While the configuration as shown in  utilizes fixture  to function as the clamping mechanism that keeps wafer  in its proper position on platen , it is to be understood that an alternative embodiment may still utilize original clamp ring  in combination with fixture .  illustrates this alternative embodiment, where fixture  is first positioned over and aligned with wafer  (wafer  not visible in this view). Once fixture  is properly positioned, clamp ring  is shown as positioned over the combination of wafer  and fixture , holding them together and in place on the surface of platen .","There are a variety of conventional plasma etch chambers that utilize a manual load feature. That is, an individual wafer is placed in a holder outside of the vacuum chamber and then passed through a valve door in a vacuum load lock to enter the plasma chamber.  is a simplified illustrate of one such manual load plasma etch chamber B. As shown, wafer  is first positioned on a holder A, and then passed through a valve door B to be placed on platen . Once wafer  is in place on platen  (and holder A removed from the chamber), fixture  is positioned on top of wafer  and used as discussed above to perform wafer scale oblique angle etching.","In this scenario where a manual load process is used, it is also possible to first position fixture  on wafer  before loading the wafer in the etch chamber. This alternative is shown in , which illustrates the placement of fixture  on wafer  with holder A then used to pass the combination of wafer  and fixture  through valve door B and onto platen . As long as the dimensions of valve door B are sufficient to accommodate the extra height associated with fixture , this particular configuration requires no modifications to a conventional plasma etch chamber, yet provides for wafer scale oblique angle etching.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 11-13","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["20","22","24","22","20","22","26","26","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 13"],"b":["20","28","2","28","2","3","28","29","29","28","20","2","2","3","30","22","20","22","30","26","24"]},"As mentioned above, Faraday cage configurations other than the right triangle geometry shown in the above embodiments may be used.  illustrates an exemplary Faraday cage  configured as an isosceles triangle. In the case where both angled surfaces  and  are formed as grids, etching on both vertical surfaces of an enclosed semiconductor structure will take place, as shown in .  illustrates a Faraday cage  that exhibits a conical geometry, where an upper portion  of the cone structure is formed as the angled mesh surface that allows entry to plasma ions, resulting in the etched structure as shown in . Other possible Faraday cage geometries may be used, as long as the cage includes some type of angled surface that will re-direct the reactive ions and enable the oblique angle etching process. Indeed, it may be possible to form a fixture which is an \u201cempty\u201d substrate, and the user may populate the surface with various ones of Faraday cages that are desired to be used, where different cage geometries may be used at different locations. It is also to be understood that while the above discussion referred to provision of \u201coblique\u201d angle etching, other orientations of etching may be achieved by used a fixture including a plurality of Faraday cages formed in accordance with the present invention. Inasmuch as the directionality of the ions onto an underlying wafer is controlled by the orientation of grid surfaces of the Faraday cages, any desired modification to the etch angle can be provided by modifying the angular orientation of the grid surface(s) of the Faraday cages.","The Faraday cage configurations illustrated in  are pictured and described in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2013\/147966 A2, published Oct. 3, 2013 under the title, \u201cSmall-Scale Fabrication Systems and Methods.\u201d Etched structures as illustrated in  are likewise pictured and illustrated in the same International Patent Application Publication."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the drawings, where like numerals represent like parts in several views:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 11 and 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 14C","FIG. 14B","FIG. 14D"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
