---
title: System, apparatus, and method for split die interconnection
abstract: A semiconductor package for a side by side die configuration may include a substrate having a cavity, a bridge interposer positioned within the cavity and having an active side facing active sides of a first die and a second die and partially horizontally overlapping the first die and the second die to provide an interconnection between the first die and the second die, and a thermal element attached to backsides of the first die and the second die to provide a heat path and heat storage for the first die and the second die.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09379090&OS=09379090&RS=09379090
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09379090
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates generally to semiconductor packages, and more specifically, but not exclusively, to split die semiconductor packages.","Semiconductor packages come in many varieties based on the intended application. A split die semiconductor package is a casing containing two semiconductor dies that provides protection against impact and holds the contact pins or leads that are used to connect from external circuits to the package. The split die architecture requires Die-to-Die (D2D) interconnects with very fine line and spaces (L\/S\u2014typically 1\/1, 2\/2). These fine line and spacing parameters are expensive to achieve and create problems with the requirement for exact placement of the die to align with the fine L\/S routing. Conventional split die semiconductor packages either require a silicon interposer that acts like a bridge or embedded wafer level package (eWLP) with multiple redistribution layers (RDLs) that have fine line and space parameters. However, conventional interposers increase the height of the package, which is undesirable, and embedded multiple RDLs are complicated and expensive to manufacture plus they are not suitable for high volume manufacturing.","Accordingly, there are long-felt industry needs for methods that improve upon conventional methods including the improved methods and apparatus provided hereby.","The inventive features that are characteristic of the teachings, together with further features and advantages, are better understood from the detailed description and the accompanying figures. Each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only, and does not limit the present teachings.","The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and\/or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such, the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and\/or examples, nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and\/or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and\/or example. Accordingly, the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and\/or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.","Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems, apparatus, and methods for a side by side semiconductor package including: a first die having an active side and a backside; a second die having an active side and a backside, the second die being horizontally adjacent the first die and spaced therefrom; a bridge interposer having an active side and a backside, the bridge interposer active side facing the active sides of the first die and the second die and partially horizontally overlapping the first die and the second die, the bridge interposer providing an interconnection between the first die and the second die; a first substrate having a cavity therein and attached to the backside of the bridge interposer such that the bridge interposer is positioned within the first substrate cavity; and a thermal element attached to the backside of the first die and the backside of the second die, the thermal element providing a heat path and heat storage for the first die and the second die.","Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.","In accordance with common practice, the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly, the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice, some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus, the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further, like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.","Methods, apparatus, and systems for interconnection of a split die semiconductor package are provided. In some examples, the split die semiconductor package includes a bridge interposer that has fine L\/S of 2\/2 or finer and is positioned within a substrate cavity, and a thermal element attached to the backsides of the die in the package. In some examples for PoP packages, the split die are also positioned within a substrate cavity of a second substrate. By placing the bridge interposer in a cavity of a package substrate and, if applicable, placing the die in another package substrate cavity, the overall height dimension of the package is reduced. The addition of a thermal element embedded in the second substrate provides a heat dissipation function without increasing the height. In addition, the connection of a fine L\/S bridge interposer to the split die before the die are attached to a substrate using a self-aligning solder reflow process avoids the placement problems associated with connecting die with fine L\/S to the bridge interposer after the die have been attached to a substrate.","Various aspects are disclosed in the following description and related drawings to show specific examples relating to the disclosure. Alternate examples will be apparent to those skilled in the pertinent art upon reading this disclosure, and may be constructed and practiced without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. Additionally, well-known elements will not be described in detail or may be omitted so as to not obscure the relevant details of the aspects and examples disclosed herein.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any details described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other examples. Likewise, the term \u201cexamples\u201d does not require that all examples include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation. Use of the terms \u201cin one example,\u201d \u201can example,\u201d \u201cin one feature,\u201d and\/or \u201ca feature\u201d in this specification does not necessarily refer to the same feature and\/or example. Furthermore, a particular feature and\/or structure can be combined with one or more other features and\/or structures. Moreover, at least a portion of the apparatus described hereby can be configured to perform at least a portion of a method described hereby.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of examples of the disclosure. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d, \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes,\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","It should be noted that the terms \u201cconnected,\u201d \u201ccoupled,\u201d or any variant thereof, mean any connection or coupling, either direct or indirect, between elements, and can encompass a presence of an intermediate element between two elements that are \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d together via the intermediate element. Coupling and\/or connection between the elements can be physical, logical, or a combination thereof. As employed herein, elements can be \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d together, for example, by using one or more wires, cables, and\/or printed electrical connections, as well as by using electromagnetic energy. The electromagnetic energy can have wavelengths in the radio frequency region, the microwave region and\/or the optical (both visible and invisible) region. These are several non-limiting and non-exhaustive examples.","It should be understood that the term \u201csignal\u201d can include any signal such as a data signal, audio signal, video signal, multimedia signal, analog signal, and\/or digital signal. Information and signals can be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, an instruction, a process step, a command, information, a signal, a bit, and\/or a symbol described in this description can be represented by a voltage, a current, an electromagnetic wave, a magnetic field and\/or particle, an optical field and\/or particle, and any combination thereof.","Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as \u201cfirst,\u201d \u201csecond,\u201d and so forth does not limit the quantity and\/or order of those elements. Rather, these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and\/or instances of an element. Thus, a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed, or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also, unless stated otherwise, a set of elements can comprise one or more elements. In addition, terminology of the form \u201cat least one of: A, B, or C\u201d used in the description or the claims can be interpreted as \u201cA or B or C or any combination of these elements.\u201d","Further, many examples are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the examples described herein, the corresponding form of any such examples may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action.","In this description, certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term \u201cmobile device\u201d can describe, and is not limited to, a mobile phone, a mobile communication device, a pager, a personal digital assistant, a personal information manager, a mobile hand-held computer, a laptop computer, a wireless device, a wireless modem, and\/or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and\/or having communication capabilities (e.g., wireless, cellular, infrared, short-range radio, etc.). Further, the terms \u201cuser equipment\u201d (UE), \u201cmobile terminal,\u201d \u201cmobile device,\u201d and \u201cwireless device,\u201d can be interchangeable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","208","10","12","14","14","15","16","12","12","20","24","12"]},"Processor , which executes instructions from at least two instruction sets in different instruction set operating modes, additionally includes a debug circuit , operative to compare, upon the execution of each instruction, at least a predetermined target instruction set operating mode to the current instruction set operating mode, and to provide an indication of a match between the two. Debug circuit  is described in greater detail below.","Pipeline  fetches instructions from an instruction cache (I-cache) , with memory address translation and permissions managed by an Instruction-side Translation Lookaside Buffer (ITLB) . Data is accessed from a data cache (D-cache) , with memory address translation and permissions managed by a main Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) . In various examples, ITLB  may comprise a copy of part of TLB . Alternatively, ITLB  and TLB  may be integrated. Similarly, in various examples of processor , I-cache  and D-cache  may be integrated, or unified. Further, I-cache  and D-cache  may be L1 caches. Misses in I-cache  and\/or D-cache  cause an access to main (off-chip) memory ,  by a memory interface . Memory interface  may be a master input to a bus interconnect  implementing a shared bus to one or more memory devices ,  that may incorporate the improved data decompression in accordance with some examples of the disclosure. Additional master devices (not shown) may additionally connect to bus interconnect .","Processor  may include input\/output (I\/O) interface , which may be a master device on a peripheral bus, across which I\/O interface  may access various peripheral devices ,  via bus . Those of skill in the art will recognize that numerous variations of processor  are possible. For example, processor  may include a second-level (L2) cache for either or both I and D caches , . In addition, one or more of the functional blocks depicted in processor  may be omitted from a particular example. Other functional blocks that may reside in processor , such as a JTAG controller, instruction pre-decoder, branch target address cache, and the like are not germane to a description of the present disclosure, and are omitted for clarity.","Referring to , a system  that includes a UE , (here a wireless device), such as a cellular telephone, which has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from a radio access network (RAN) that may ultimately come from a core network, the Internet and\/or other remote servers and networks. Platform  can include transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d ), or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory  of the wireless device. Memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform  also can include local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. Internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","Accordingly, an example of the disclosure can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, ASIC , memory , API  and local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of UE  in  are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.","The wireless communication between UE  and the RAN can be based on different technologies, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly, the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the examples of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of examples of the disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","310","311","312","320","321","322","330","331","332","340","341","350","351","360","320","310","360","312","322","360","310","361","360","310","320","351","360","350","351","310","320","351","360","300","310","320"]},"The bridge interposer  may be positioned in the first substrate cavity  with the bridge interposer active side  facing the first die active side  and the second die active side  and the bridge interposer backside  facing the first substrate . The bridge interposer  partially overlaps the edges of the first die  and the second die  in the horizontal direction and is spaced slight below the first die  and the second die . The bridge interposer may include pathways, routings, or interconnections on the surface or therein to route signals between the first die  and the second die . These interconnections may have very fine L\/S parameters such as 1\/1 or 2\/2. The semiconductor package  may or may not include a molding material encapsulating the first die , the second die , and the bridge interposer  as well as filling the empty space in the first substrate cavity , the second substrate cavity , and the space between the first substrate  and the second substrate . The bridge interposer active side , the first die active side , and the second die active side  may include bumps that provide external connections between the die or interposer and external elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","410","411","412","420","421","422","430","431","432","440","441","442","440","460","420","410","460","412","422","460","410","461","460","400","410","420"]},"The bridge interposer  may be positioned in the first substrate cavity  with the bridge interposer active side  facing the first die active side  and the second die active side  and the bridge interposer backside  facing the substrate . The bridge interposer  partially overlaps the edges of the first die  and the second die  in the horizontal direction and is spaced slight below the first die  and the second die . The bridge interposer may include pathways, routings, or interconnections on the surface or therein to route signals between the first die  and the second die . These interconnections may have very fine L\/S parameters such as 1\/1 or 2\/2. The semiconductor package  may or may not include a molding material  encapsulating the first die , the second die , and the bridge interposer  as well as filling the empty space in the substrate cavity  and the space between the substrate  and the thermal element . The bridge interposer active side , the first die active side , and the second die active side  may include bumps that provide external connections between the die or interposer and external elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-K","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5D"],"b":["500","510","511","512","520","521","522","511","513","513","521","523","523","510","520","500","512","522","500","530","531","532","533","531","513","530","530","510","520","533","513","523","533","513","523","531","511","521"]},"As shown in , the process continues with the attachment of a bridge interposer adhesive layer  on the backside  of the bridge interposer . The adhesive layer  may be of different materials that allow the bridge interposer  to be securely attached to another component, such as a substrate. As shown in , the process continues with the addition of a first substrate  having a cavity  centrally located in the horizontal direction, a glass fiber  extending horizontally thorough the substrate , and a plurality of external connection points or electrically conductive bumps  for connecting to pathways and devices external to the first substrate .","As shown in , the first substrate  is attached to the bridge interposer  through the adhesive layer  such that the bridge interposer  is positioned within cavity , to the first die  and the second die  by attaching the bumps  to bumps  and bumps . This can be accomplished by a solder reflow process that self-aligns the fine bumps  with the bumps  and  to avoid the placement accuracy issues normally associated with pick and placing such fine L\/S components. As shown in , the process continues with the removal of the carrier  and re-orientation of the remaining package although the re-orientation is optional.","As shown in Fig. SI, the process continues with application of a thermal interface material  to the backsides  and  of the die. The thermal interface material  acts as an adhesive as well as a thermal conductor to transfer heat away from the first die  and the second die . As shown in , the process continues with the addition of a second substrate  having a cavity  and a thermal element or layer  embedded in the second substrate  or at or near the bottom surface of the cavity . The thermal element  provides a heat pathway, storage, and dissipation mechanism for the package and may be composed of material suitable for this purpose. As shown in , the partial process concludes with the attached of the second substrate  to the first substrate . The thermal element  is attached to the thermal interface material  on the backsides  and  of the die so that the die  and  are centrally located within the cavity . The first substrate  is connected to the second substrate  through solder balls on the outside edges of the first substrate  and second substrate  that provides a spacing for the substrates and electrical pathways through associated vias, connection points, and solder balls. In addition, the empty spaces may be filled with an encapsulation or fill material if desired (not shown). The double cavity structure will reduce the package height versus conventional approaches for PoP semiconductor packages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-D","FIGS. 5A-D","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D"],"b":["634","632","630","634","630","640","641","642","640","643","640","640","630","634","630","641","610","620","643","613","623","643","613","623","662","600","640","600","661","612","622","610","620","660","661","661","610","620","660"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-L","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIGS. 7C","FIGS. 7C"],"b":["700","701","710","700","710","700","720","730","720","720","720","700","720","730"]},"As shown in , the carrier  is then separated from the composite structure forming separate substrates  and . We will describe further processing of the substrate with respect to only one substrate, but it should be understood that the further process can be applied to both substrates. As shown in , after separating the carrier  from substrate , connection points  are formed in substrate  and substrate  is coated with a combination litho\/cu plating layer . The plating layer  can be composed of lithographic resin and copper plating. As shown in , the plating layer  is then stripped to expose various portions of substrate . The portions exposed can be arranged as needed to achieve a desired pattern. As shown in , substrate  with exposed copper layer is further etched to remove seed layer  but keep copper portions  and copper plating . As shown in  and J, following this etching process, a mask layer  is formed on substrate  except in the location of the future cavity or copper plating . Another etching process is applied to substrate  to form a cavity . In this etching process, the masked portions of substrate  are protected from etching and only the exposed copper plating  is etched away. As shown in , after forming cavity , the copper plating  is stripped away from substrate . As shown in , the mask layer  is stripped away. Next, a three stage process is applied to substrate . In the three stage process: a SR coating is applied, exposed, and then developed. After this three stage process, the substrate  structure may be ready for further processing such as surface finishing.","Nothing stated or illustrated depicted in this application is intended to dedicate any component, step, feature, benefit, advantage, or equivalent to the public, regardless of whether the component, step, feature, benefit, advantage, or the equivalent is recited in the claims.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices (e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration).","Although some aspects have been described in connection with a device, it goes without saying that these aspects also constitute a description of the corresponding method, and so a block or a component of a device should also be understood as a corresponding method step or as a feature of a method step. Analogously thereto, aspects described in connection with or as a method step also constitute a description of a corresponding block or detail or feature of a corresponding device. Some or all of the method steps can be performed by a hardware apparatus (or using a hardware apparatus), such as, for example, a microprocessor, a programmable computer or an electronic circuit. In some examples, some or a plurality of the most important method steps can be performed by such an apparatus.","The examples described above merely constitute an illustration of the principles of the present disclosure. It goes without saying that modifications and variations of the arrangements and details described herein will become apparent to other persons skilled in the art. Therefore, it is intended that the disclosure be restricted only by the scope of protection of the appended patent claims, rather than by the specific details presented on the basis of the description and the explanation of the examples herein.","In the detailed description above it can be seen that different features are grouped together in examples. This manner of disclosure should not be understood as an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are explicitly mentioned in the respective claim. Rather, the situation is such that inventive content may reside in fewer than all features of an individual example disclosed. Therefore, the following claims should hereby be deemed to be incorporated in the description, wherein each claim by itself can stand as a separate example. Although each claim by itself can stand as a separate example, it should be noted that-although a dependent claim can refer in the claims to a specific combination with one or a plurality of claims-other examples can also encompass or include a combination of said dependent claim with the subject matter of any other dependent claim or a combination of any feature with other dependent and independent claims. Such combinations are proposed herein, unless it is explicitly expressed that a specific combination is not intended. Furthermore, it is also intended that features of a claim can be included in any other independent claim, even if said claim is not directly dependent on the independent claim.","It should furthermore be noted that methods disclosed in the description or in the claims can be implemented by a device comprising means for performing the respective steps or actions of this method.","Furthermore, in some examples, an individual step\/action can be subdivided into a plurality of sub-steps or contain a plurality of sub-steps. Such sub-steps can be contained in the disclosure of the individual step and be part of the disclosure of the individual step.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative examples of the disclosure, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the examples of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of aspects of the disclosure and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings which are presented solely for illustration and not limitation of the disclosure, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-K"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-L"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
