---
title: Wafer level package without sidewall cracking
abstract: A wafer level package device may include a molding compound that encapsulates a substrate, a back end of line and front end of line layer on the substrate and a passivation layer of a redistribution layer without encapsulating a metal layer on the passivation layer. The molding compound may eliminate sidewall chipping and cracking as well as reduce the need for back side lamination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318405&OS=09318405&RS=09318405
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09318405
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150501
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present Application for patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/987,210, entitled \u201cMETHOD TO CREATE FOOTPRINT MATCH WLP PACKAGES WITHOUT SIDEWALL CRACK WITH FOWLP RECONSTITUTION PROCESS,\u201d filed May 1, 2014, assigned to the assignee hereof, and expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This disclosure relates generally to wafer level packaging (WLP), and more specifically, but not exclusively, to a WLP with a partially encapsulated redistribution layer (RDL).","Wafer level packaging allows packaging an integrated circuit while it remains in the wafer. It is a chip-scale package technology. WLP can integrate wafer fabrication, packaging, test, and burn-in at the wafer level in order to streamline a device's manufacture. It consists of extending the wafer fabrication processes to include device interconnection. WLP attaches the top and bottom outer layers of packaging, and the solder bumps, to integrated circuits while still in the wafer, and then dicing the wafer.","Different types of WLP exists, such as fan-in WLP and fan-out WLP. Fan-in WLP uses layout package connections within the chip area, and when the scale and count of on-chip bond pads does not match with standard packaging scales, a RDL of metal interconnect can be used to fan-in to ball-grid or pillar-grid arrays (BGA\/PGA) within the chip-area. However, when the needed number of connections cannot be made within the chip area, mold compound materials can be used to provide physical area adjacent to an original chip such that package connections can be arranged on a fan-out area when seen from above.","To reduce manufacturing costs further, a fan-in WLP process for manufacturing an 8\u2033 Si wafers may use a 12\u2033 fan-out WLP process. This can result in a significant cost saving (up to 30%). However, to build a traditionally fan-out WLP requires adding a thick mold compound to the sidewalls. It's extremely difficult to reduce sidewall width and minimize form factor to match fan-in wafer level package.","One of these difficulties in fan-in WLP products can be sidewall chipping and cracking, which can cause yield loss and lead to surface mount technology failures and reliability failures. Sidewall chipping and cracking can account for a high level of customer returns. Current semiconductor assembly and tests are unable to control chipping and cracking within ten percent of the die's width and length. Current automatic inspections can provide quality assurance measures, but the capital investment and reduced throughput can be costly. Furthermore, the cracking and chipping may not be eliminated using automatic inspections, but merely prevented from reaching the customer.","Accordingly, there is a need for systems, apparatus, and methods that improve upon conventional approaches including the improved methods, system and apparatus provided hereby.","The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and\/or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such, the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and\/or examples, nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and\/or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and\/or example. Accordingly, the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and\/or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.","Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems, apparatus, and methods for a wafer level package device that includes a substrate having a non-active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall; a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side, the redistribution layer having a metal layer and a dielectric layer; and a molding compound encapsulating the substrate and the metal layer being free of the molding compound.","Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems, apparatus, and methods for a wafer level package device that includes a substrate having a non-active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall; a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side, the redistribution layer having a metal layer and a dielectric layer; and a molding compound having a first molding compound sidewall and a second molding compound sidewall, the molding compound encapsulating the substrate while leaving the metal layer exposed such that a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall is greater than a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the third substrate sidewall.","Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems, apparatus, and methods for a wafer level package device may include a substrate having a non-active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall; a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side, the redistribution layer having a dielectric layer in contact with the active substrate side, a polymer layer on the dielectric layer, and a metal layer in the polymer layer; a molding compound having a first molding compound sidewall even with the third substrate sidewall, a second molding compound sidewall even with the fourth substrate sidewall, a third molding compound sidewall extending horizontally beyond the first molding compound sidewall, and a fourth molding compound sidewall extending horizontally beyond the second molding compound sidewall; and the molding compound encapsulating the substrate such that a width between the third molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall is greater than a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall.","Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.","In accordance with common practice, the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly, the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice, some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus, the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further, like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.","The disclosure is directed to create a wafer level package using fan out wafer level packaging process. Some advantages may include the ability to create a small factor fan-in WLP without sidewall cracking that can occur when using a standard fan-in WLP process. This smaller form factor may provide cost savings. Additional mold compound (MC) wrapped around die corners may eliminate mold compound peeling from a thin MC sidewall. It may also eliminate Z2 saw chipping and cracking by using a robust MC in the bottom half of the silicon so that no sidewall is required. Thinner package height may be achieved while maintaining structure robustness. This may reduce the need for back side lamination (BSL) for thin MC sidewall and no MC sidewall versions. There may be improved yield and reliability with these various implementations. The improved quality can reduce customer returns. Flexibility of fan-in and fan-out WLP lines may also be used to create form factor match packages, which can mitigate WLP capacity constraint.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","111","112","113","114","115","116","110","117","114","100","118","117","114","119","118","125","118","125","120","118","117","121","120","118","122","121","120","118","119"]},"As shown in , the WLP device structure  may include a solder ball  on the polymer layer  opposite the dielectric layer  that partially extends into the polymer layer  to contact the metal layer , and a molding compound . The molding compound  encapsulates the substrate , the back end of line and front end of line layer , and the passivation layer . This allows the molding process to occur before completion of the metal inset , the dielectric layer , the polymer layer, the metal layer , or the solder ball , which will reduce manufacturing cost while still allowing the multi-layered redistribution layer to redistribute power from the solder ball  to the back end of line and front end of line layer . Substrate  may be composed of silicon or other suitable material and mold compound  may extend well beyond the substrate  to form a fan-out area as needed. The back end of line and front end of line layer  are where the integrated circuit component may be located. For example, a front end of line (FEOL) process is the first portion of IC fabrication where the individual devices (transistors, capacitors, resistors, etc.) are patterned in the semiconductor. FEOL generally covers everything up to (but not including) the deposition of metal interconnect layers. The back end of line (BEOL) process is the second portion of IC fabrication where the individual devices (transistors, capacitors, resistors, etc.) get interconnected with wiring on the wafer. BEOL generally begins when the first layer of metal is deposited on the wafer. BEOL includes contacts, insulating layers (dielectrics), metal levels, and bonding sites for chip-to-package connections. After the last FEOL step, there is a wafer with isolated transistors (without any wires). In the BEOL part of fabrication stage contacts (pads), interconnect wires, vias and dielectric structures are formed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","100","200","210","225","125","240","210","225","210","212","213","210","215","212","216","213","240","241","242","241","243","215","241","245","212","241","242","244","216","242","246","213","242","243","244","210","215","216","245","246","243","244"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","200","300","310","311","340","310","311"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","300","400","410","411","412","413","414","415","416","425","125","418","440","410","440","441","415","442","416","447","441","448","442","410","414","425","125","415","416","411"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 6A-C"],"b":["502","510","517","510","503","512","513","504","510","506","580","581","514","508","540","510","517","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-C","FIG. 6A","FIG. 1"],"b":["690","100","110","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 2"],"b":["691","200","210","240"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 3"],"b":["693","300","310","340","340","311"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-C","FIG. 7A"],"b":["1010","1020","1010","717","710","710","700","1020","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["1030","1040","1030","717","710","740","710","700","1040","740","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 4"],"b":["1050","1060","1050","417","410","440","410","400","1060","440","400","410","440","411"]},"In this description, certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term \u201cmobile device\u201d can describe, and is not limited to, a music player, a video player, an entertainment unit, a navigation device, a communications device, a mobile device, a mobile phone, a smartphone, a personal digital assistant, a fixed location terminal, a tablet computer, a computer, a wearable device, a laptop computer, a server, a device in an automotive vehicle, and\/or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and\/or having communication capabilities (e.g., wireless, cellular, infrared, short-range radio, etc.). Further, the terms \u201cuser equipment\u201d (UE), \u201cmobile terminal,\u201d \u201cmobile device,\u201d and \u201cwireless device,\u201d can be interchangeable.","Wafer level package devices according to the examples above (e.g. the WLP device structure , the WLP device structure , the WLP device structure , the WLP device structure , and the WLP device structure ) can be used for a number of different applications, such as in the circuit components of a mobile device. Referring to  as an example, a system  may include an UE , (here a wireless device), which has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from a radio access network (RAN) that may ultimately come from a core network, the Internet and\/or other remote servers and networks. Platform  can include transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d ), or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory  of the wireless device. Memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform  also can include local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. Internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","The wireless communication between UE  and the RAN can be based on different technologies, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.","The words \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d are used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any aspect described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise, the term \u201caspects of the disclosure\u201d does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as \u201cfirst,\u201d \u201csecond,\u201d and so forth does not limit the quantity and\/or order of those elements. Rather, these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and\/or instances of an element. Thus, a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed, or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also, unless stated otherwise, a set of elements can comprise one or more elements. In addition, terminology of the form \u201cat least one of: A, B, or C\u201d used in the description or the claims can be interpreted as \u201cA or B or C or any combination of these elements.\u201d","Nothing stated or illustrated depicted in this application is intended to dedicate any component, step, feature, benefit, advantage, or equivalent to the public, regardless of whether the component, step, feature, benefit, advantage, or the equivalent is recited in the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of aspects of the disclosure and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings which are presented solely for illustration and not limitation of the disclosure, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
