---
title: Generating terahertz frequency combs from quantum cascade lasers using nonlinear frequency mixing
abstract: Methods and systems include generating one or more mid-infrared frequencies based at least upon electron transitions in one or more quantum cascade heterostructures. The quantum cascade heterostructures are concurrently configured with a significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility, a significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility, and an insignificant group velocity dispersion. A set of mid-infrared frequencies (that may include a frequency comb) is generated in the quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a four-wave mixing of the one or more mid-infrared frequencies. The four-wave mixing arises at least from the significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility and the insignificant group velocity dispersion. A set of terahertz frequencies (that may include a frequency comb) is generated in the quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a difference frequency generation from mid-infrared frequency pairs selected from the set of mid-infrared frequencies. The difference frequency generation arises at least from the significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509123&OS=09509123&RS=09509123
owner: Board of Regents The University of Texas System
number: 09509123
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151021
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["B. CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","A. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","C. TECHNICAL FIELD","D. BACKGROUND","F. DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62\/066,746, filed on Oct. 21, 2014, titled \u201cGENERATING OPTICAL TERAHERTZ FREQUENCY COMBS USING TERAHERTZ CHERENKOV DIFFERENCE-FREQUENCY GENERATION IN QUANTUM CASCADE LASERS,\u201d and naming Mikhail Belkin, Karun Vijayraghavan, and Seungyong Jung as inventors. The aforementioned application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.","The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to the terms of National Science Foundation Grant No. ECCS 1408511 \u201cBroadband THz frequency comb generation in quantum cascade lasers\u201d.","The present disclosure relates generally to generating terahertz frequency combs, and more particularly to generating optical terahertz frequency combs using nonlinear frequency mixing in quantum cascade lasers.","A frequency comb is a spectrum consisting of a discrete set of equally spaced frequency elements. Frequency comb generation generally involves the combination of an optical laser source with a nonlinear process. Frequency combs can be generated by a number of mechanisms, including amplitude modulation in continuous wave lasers or stabilization of pulse trains generated by semiconductor, mode locked lasers. Four-wave mixing can be used in microresonators and quantum cascade lasers to produce frequency combs. However, frequency comb generation using existing terahertz (frequency range 0.1-10 THz) quantum cascade laser systems requires cryogenic cooling to operate and has limited bandwidth for comb generation. Optical frequency combs provide a useful tool with applications in numerous areas, including spectroscopy, metrology, sensing, ranging, and distance measurement.","While specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and the accompanying detailed description, various other modifications and alternative forms are possible. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description are not intended to be limiting.","The following detailed description is merely illustrative in nature and is not intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter of the application or uses of such embodiments. As used herein, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d means \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. Furthermore, there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field, background, brief summary or the following detailed description.","This specification includes references to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d The appearances of the phrases \u201cin one embodiment\u201d or \u201cin an embodiment\u201d do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.","Terminology. The following paragraphs provide definitions and\/or context for terms found in this disclosure (including the appended claims):","\u201cComprising.\u201d This term is open-ended. As used in the appended claims, this term does not foreclose additional structure or steps.","\u201cConfigured To.\u201d Various units or components may be described or claimed as \u201cconfigured to\u201d perform a task or tasks. In such contexts, \u201cconfigured to\u201d is used to connote structure by indicating that the units\/components include structure that performs those task or tasks during operation. As such, the unit\/component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit\/component is not currently operational (e.g., is not on\/active). Reciting that a unit\/circuit\/component is \u201cconfigured to\u201d perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112, sixth paragraph, for that unit\/component.","\u201cFirst,\u201d \u201cSecond,\u201d etc. As used herein, these terms are used as labels for nouns that they precede, and do not imply any type of ordering (e.g., spatial, temporal, logical, etc.). For example, reference to a \u201cfirst\u201d module unit does not necessarily imply that this module unit is the first module unit in a sequence; instead, the term \u201cfirst\u201d is used to differentiate this module unit from another module unit (e.g., a \u201csecond\u201d module unit).","\u201cBased On.\u201d As used herein, this term is used to describe one or more factors that affect a determination. This term does not foreclose additional factors that may affect a determination. That is, a determination may be solely based on those factors or based, at least in part, on those factors. Consider the phrase \u201cdetermine A based on B.\u201d While B may be a factor that affects the determination of A, such a phrase does not foreclose the determination of A from also being based on C. In other instances, A may be determined based solely on B.","\u201cCoupled\u201d\u2014The following description refers to elements, nodes, or features being \u201ccoupled\u201d. As used herein, unless expressly stated otherwise, \u201ccoupled\u201d means that one element\/node\/feature is directly or indirectly joined to (or directly or indirectly communicates with) another element\/node\/feature, and not necessarily mechanically.","\u201cInhibit\u201d\u2014As used herein, inhibit is used to describe a reducing or minimizing effect. When a component or feature is described as inhibiting an action, motion, or condition it may completely prevent the result or outcome or future state completely. Additionally, \u201cinhibit\u201d can also refer to a reduction or lessening of the outcome, performance, and\/or effect which might otherwise occur. Accordingly, when a component, element, or feature is referred to as inhibiting a result or state, it need not completely prevent or eliminate the result or state.","In addition, certain terminology may also be used in the following description for the purpose of reference only, and thus are not intended to be limiting. For example, terms such as \u201cupper\u201d, \u201clower\u201d, \u201cabove\u201d, and \u201cbelow\u201d refer to directions in the drawings to which reference is made. Terms such as \u201cfront\u201d, \u201cback\u201d, \u201crear\u201d, \u201cside\u201d, \u201coutboard\u201d, and \u201cinboard\u201d describe the orientation and\/or location of portions of the component within a consistent but arbitrary frame of reference which is made clear by reference to the text and the associated drawings describing the component under discussion. Such terminology may include the words specifically mentioned above, derivatives thereof, and words of similar import.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth, such as specific operations, in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known techniques are not described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure embodiments of the present disclosure.","Disclosed below are various concepts related to, and embodiments of, a quantum cascade laser (QCL) designed to generate terahertz (THz) frequency combs (THz FC) via difference frequency generation (DFG) between mid-infrared (mid-IR) emissions lines (with some of the mid-IR emission lines being frequency combs (FC)) generated concurrently in the QCL. For a discussion on the formation of mid-IR frequency combs in QCLs, please refer to \u201cMid-infrared frequency comb based on a quantum cascade laser\u201d, Andreas Hugi, Gustavo Villares, Stephane Blaser, H. C. Liu, & Jerome Faist, 13 Dec. 2012, VOL 492, NATURE LETTERS, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety and for all purposes.","A Cherenkov emission scheme may be utilized for broadband THz outcoupling. These devices may be operated at room temperature to output THz FCs spanning the entire 0.5-6 THz range and beyond. THz FC QCLs can enable rapid and highly sensitive broadband THz spectroscopy and spectroscopic imaging using highly-sensitive room-temperature heterodyne THz detectors, such as Schottky diodes. A QCL-based THz FC spectroscopic system would represent a significant improvement in speed, compactness, spectral resolution, and cost-effective mass-production over existing THz spectroscopic systems. Additional applications for the disclosed THz FC sources may include metrology and distance measurements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1()","b":["100","101","101","101","101","101"],"sup":["16 ","\u22123"],"sub":"sub"},"QCL  includes an active region  surrounded by waveguide cladding layers  and . Waveguide cladding layers  and  are disposed about active region  to form waveguide structure  to guide mid-IR radiation by which terahertz radiation is emitted by laser  as described below. In some embodiments, wave guide layers  and  comprise a 3 \u03bcm thick layer of n-doped InP (n=1.5*10cm). QCL  may include a current extraction layer , which is a thin, doped semiconductor layer, positioned on substrate  to improve lateral current extraction from active region . In some embodiments, current extraction layer comprises a 200 nm thick layer of n-doped InGaAs (n=7*10cm). In some embodiments, current extraction layer  and waveguide cladding layer  are the same layer.","To facilitate extraction of THz radiation along a substantial portion of the length of the waveguide , a Cherenkov phase matching scheme may be utilized. Cherenkov emission occurs when the phase velocity of the nonlinear polarization wave in a thin slab of nonlinear optical material is faster than the phase velocity of the THz radiation in the medium surrounding the slab. By suitably configuring the refractive indices of waveguide  and substrate , the THz radiation generated in active region  may be efficiently extracted out of waveguide .","One or more contact layers, such as contact layers  and  shown in , may be employed to facilitate the application of current through active region . Contact layer  is formed on an upper surface of waveguide cladding layer . Contact layer  is formed on an upper surface of contact layer . In some embodiments, contact layer  is a metal that includes gold. In some embodiment contact layer  may be omitted and contact layer  may be formed directly over waveguide cladding layer . To avoid total internal reflection at the front facet of QCL  of the THz radiation emitted into substrate  via the Cherenkov process, the front portion of substrate  should be cut and polished at a suitable angle, as shown in . In some embodiments, such angle is in the range 20\u00b0-30\u00b0. A THz anti-reflective coating may be applied to the polished substrate facet to improve THz outcoulping efficiency, and a high reflective coating may be applied the back facet of QCL  to improve intracavity intensity of the generated mid-infrared and THz radiation",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1()","FIG. 1()"],"b":["107","104","105","106","103","107","109","103","109","108"]},"Active region  includes one or more quantum cascade heterostructures configured to have concurrent second-order nonlinear susceptibility (\u03c7), significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility (\u03c7), and insignificant group velocity dispersion (GVD). Quantum engineering of the quantum cascade heterostructures energy subband states (and intersubband transitions between such states) may be utilized to provide resonant enhancement of \u03c7and \u03c7(additional details for calculating these higher order susceptibilities are provided below). In general, \u03c7and \u03c7may be considered significant when they are orders of magnitude greater than second and third order nonlinear susceptibilities of comparable materials that have not been engineered in accordance with the present disclosure. GVD is considered insignificant when it is zero or approximately zero, as discussed below in more detail.","Each quantum cascade heterostructure includes a plurality of quantum cascade stages, with each stage comprising a series of alternating barrier and well layers. In some embodiments, quantum cascade stages may be arranged as a InGaAs\/InAlAs multiple quantum well structures that use InGaAs in quantum well layers and InAlAs in quantum barrier layers. The number of quantum cascade stage repetitions in a quantum cascade heterostructure is set suitably and is, for example, approximately 10-80 in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the one or more heterostructures are configured to have a broad mid-IR spectral gain bandwidth spanning anywhere from 1 THz-10 THz. In some embodiments, one or more of the quantum cascade heterostructures includes at least one bound-to-continuum structure.","As discussed in more detail below, one or more quantum cascade heterostructures within active region  are configured to generate a set of mid-IR frequencies based at least upon four-wave mixing (FWM) of one or more mid-IR frequencies generated by the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures arising at least from the integration of significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility and insignificant group velocity dispersion in the active region. In some embodiments, the set of mid-IR frequencies may include: a mid-IR frequency comb; a mid-IR frequency comb and a single frequency above or below the comb; any other combination of mid-IR frequencies. The mid-IR frequencies may represent the mid-IR pump frequencies associated with the QCL. Concurrently, the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures are also configured to generate a terahertz frequency comb based at least upon the second-order nonlinear optical process of difference-frequency generation between mid-infrared emission lines (with some of the mid-IR emission lines forming frequency combs (FC)).","In some embodiments, a single quantum cascade heterostructure may be configured to generate the one or more mid-IR frequencies used to generate the set of mid-IR frequencies. In other embodiments, two quantum cascade heterostructures may be used, with a first quantum cascade heterostructure configured to generate a first mid-IR frequency and a second quantum cascade heterostructure configured to generate a second mid-IR frequency, wherein the set of mid-IR frequencies results from four wave mixing of the first and second mid-IR frequencies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1()","FIGS. 1() and 1()"],"b":["200","100","100","200","225","105","225","104","225","225","105","105","200"],"i":"Nature Comm., "},"Operation of THz FC QCLs in accordance with some embodiments is illustrated in . Employing a Cherenkov emission scheme, waveguide  may be configured so that that mid-IR frequency radiation  generated in active region  propagates along the waveguide, while THz frequency radiation  generated via the DFG process in the active region  is emitted into substrate  at a \u201cCherenkov\u201d angle \u03b8given as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]}}},{"mfrac":[{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"},"msub":{"mi":["k","THz"]}},{"msub":[{"mi":["n","g"]},{"mi":["n","sub"]}]}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"where \u03b2and \u03b2are the propagation constants of the two mid-IR frequencies, \u03c9and \u03c9, generated in active region , kis the k-vector of the terahertz wave at frequency \u03c9=\u03c9\u2212\u03c9in the substrate, nis the group refractive index of the mid-IR pump modes, and nthe refractive index of the substrate at \u03c9.","In some embodiments, substrate  is comprised of undoped InP that is configured with low THz loss and low refractive index dispersion with nvarying in the 3.5-3.6 range for 0.5-5 THz light frequencies. The value of nfor a typical TMmid-IR QCL waveguide mode is approximately 3.35 and Eq. (1) yields a Cherenkov angle of approximately \u03b8\u224820\u00b0-24\u00b0 in the 0.5-5 THz range. Given a typical intersubband transition linewidth of approximately 10 meV (\u22483 THz) for optical transitions in QCLs, the intersubband optical nonlinearity for THz DFG is not changing significantly in the 0.5-5 THz range which makes Cherenkov THz DFG-QCLs well suited for broadband THz generation.","Active region  and waveguide  are designed with insignificant GVD integrated in the active region for a range of operational interest to facilitate the formation of mid-IR FC via FWM in the active region. The QCLs of the present disclosure may be modeled as Fabry-Perot (F-P) resonators. The frequency spacing \u03b4\u03c9 between adjacent modes in an F-P resonator are given as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4\u03c9","mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"L"},"mi":"c"},"msub":{"mi":["n","g"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"where L is the resonator length and nis the group refractive index for the resonator mode. The group refractive index nis related to the group velocity vand GVD as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["v","g"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":["n","g"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["and","GVD"]},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03c9"}]},{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":["v","g"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mi":"c"},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["n","g"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03c9"}]}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"For purposes of the present disclosure, the GVD is considered insignificant when nis constant or substantially constant, which translates to the GVD being zero or approximately zero. Substantially constant nis important to maintain equidistant mid-IR F-P modes to enable frequency comb formation via FWM processes. The phase-matching conditions for these FWM processes also translate into the requirement of a substantially constant nwithin the FC bandwidth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":["0.53","0.47","0.52","0.48","0.53","0.47","0.52","0.48"],"b":["310","310","320","330"],"sup":["16 ","\u22123","16 ","\u22123","16 ","\u22123"]},"Intersubband transitions that produce laser gain in the QCL active region will also affect GVD of the laser modes. The real and imaginary parts of the refractive index in the active region n+i\u03bafor the electric field perpendicular to the QCL layers in  can be estimated as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","AR"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03ba","AR"]}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","core"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","isb"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03ba","isb"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":["\u2248","\u2248"],"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["n","core"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"ez","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"i"}}}},"mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"i"}},"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","li"]}}],"mo":"-"}}}}]}}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},"where n+i\u03bais the contribution from intersubband transitions. Assuming n(\u03c9)>>|n+i\u03ba|, we obtain:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","isb"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03ba","isb"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}}],"mo":"+"},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","core"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["ez","li"]}}},"mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","li"]},"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","li"]}}],"mo":"-"}}}}]},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"Here \u0394N is the population inversion density, the summation goes over transitions from the upper laser state 1 to the various lower laser states i=2, 3, . . . (cf. ), where ez, \u03c9and \u0393are the dipole matrix element, frequency, and broadening of the transition between states i and j, respectively, and n(\u03c9) is the refractive index of the active region at zero doping which arises from the intrinsic refractive indices of the QCL active region. The group refractive index in the QCL active region, n, can then be written as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":["g","AR"],"mo":","}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","AR"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["n","AR"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03c9"}]}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":["g","core"],"mo":","}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":["g","isb"],"mo":","}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2248"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},"and nand nare the contributions to nfrom the intrinsic refractive indices of the QCL active region. and intersubband transitions, respectively.","Referring to , it is evident that nwill contribute insignificant GVD in the 7-10 \u03bcm range. The contribution from the dispersion of ncan be a major factor affecting the GVD of mid-IR QCL modes. At high pump current, the laser has significant population inversion \u0394N, which results in a strong GVD due to the contribution from nin Eq. (6).","The problem of having strong GVD due to the QCL gain can be mitigated by using a heterogeneous QCL active region design in which each of the plurality of quantum cascade stages in the active region is designed to provide gain at a slightly different wavelength. In such a way, a region with a relatively flat gain profile in the active region for the waveguide mode will result at least in part in insignificant GVD for the laser modes close to the gain center. By broadening the QCL gain, a region of low dispersion of ncan be created near the peak gain. In contrast, for QCL active regions with narrow gain n, strong dispersions may be experienced near the peak gain. The problem of strong GVD dispersion can also be addressed by using chirped mirrors at the end of the laser cavity.","The active region in the QCLs of the present disclosure are also designed with significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility \u03c7integrated into the active region to promote efficient mid-IR FC generation via FWM, and significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility \u03c7integrated into the active region to promote efficient THz DFG. The basic theoretical formalism used in the active region design of the QCLs of present disclosure is described below in the context of QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIGS. 4()","b":["4","410","420"],"i":"b","sup":"(2)"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","THz"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mi":["\u0394","N"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":[{"msup":{"mi":"e","mn":"3"},"mrow":{"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"z","mn":"12"},{"mi":"z","mn":"23"},{"mi":"z","mn":"31"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c9","THz"]},{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"23"}],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u0393","mn":"22"}}}}]}],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"13"}],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u0393","mn":"31"}}}},{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u0393","mn":"21"}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"12"}}}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}}},"where \u03c9and \u03c9are the two mid-IR pump frequencies associated with quantum cascade heterostructures  and , respectively, \u0394N is the population inversion density, ez, \u03c9and \u0393are the dipole matrix element, frequency, and broadening of the transition between states i and j, respectively. The population inversion in the devices of the present invention can be estimated as \u0394N\u22488.5*10cmbased on the laser gain equals distributed resonator loss' condition. Transition dipole moments and energies were calculated to be z\u22482.2 nm, z\u22482.2 nm, z\u22488 nm, E12\u2248135 meV and E13\u2248154 meV for quantum cascade heterostructure  and z\u22482.0 nm, z\u22482.4 nm, z\u22480.6 nm, z\u22489.0 nm, E\u2248117 meV, E\u2248134 meV, and E\u2248154 meV for quantum cascade heterostructure . Assuming typical \u0393\u224812.5 meV for the mid-IR transitions and \u0393\u22484 meV for the THz transition, one obtains |\u03c7|\u224822 nm\/V and |\u03c7|\u224810 nm\/V for quantum heterostructures  and , respectively, at the operating bias voltage. These values of \u03c7are \u02dc2-4 orders of magnitude larger than that of traditional nonlinear crystals. It has been shown experimentally that the current values of \u03c7are already sufficient to produce over 100 \u03bcW THz DFG power output with 0.6 mW\/W2 mid-IR to THz nonlinear conversion efficiency at room temperature from \u02dc1.5 mm-long 25 \u03bcm-wide ridge waveguide Cherenkov THz DFG-QCL devices.","The value of intersubband \u03c7for the mid-IR FWM in the QCL active region can be evaluated using the sum of two-level system expressions:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"1"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2192","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"3"}}}},{"mi":["\u0394","N"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"e","mn":"4"}},{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mover":{"mi":["h","_"]},"mn":"3"},"msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"}}]},"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["z","li"]}},"mn":"4"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mn":"2","mi":"i","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","li"]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"i"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","ii"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":["-","-"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"21"},"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","li"]}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":["-","+"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","li"]},"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","li"]}}}},"mn":"2"}}]}}}],"mo":"\u2248"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}}},"where \u03c9, \u03c9, and \u03c9are three adjacent mid-IR F-P laser modes involved in the FWM process, \u0394N is the population inversion between the upper state 1 and the lower state i as shown in , \u0393=1\/Twhere Tis the lifetime of the lower laser state i (typically, T\u02dc0.2 ps for lower QCL laser states, \u210f\/T\u22483 meV), \u0393is the transition linewidth between states 1 and i (typically 10-15 meV), and the summation goes over the multitude of the lower laser states i=2, 3 . . . . The difference \u03b4\u03c9 between frequencies \u03c9, \u03c9, and \u03c9has been neglected in Eq. (5) and, instead, \u03c9\u2248\u03c9\u2248\u03c9\u2248\u03c9was used in the expression. This is a valid assumption because \u210f\u03b4\u03c9<0.2 meV<<\u210f\u0393for a typical QCL Fabry-Perot mode spacing of 0.15-1.5 cm-1 in 1-10 mm-long devices.","In accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure, THz FC may be generated from QCLs with active regions that include one or more quantum cascade heterostructures configured\/integrated with significant second and third-order nonlinear susceptibilities associated with intersubband transitions and insignificant GVD.  show the mid-IR and terahertz (THz) emission spectra of a QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures, in accordance with some embodiments. These results were obtained for a QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures having band structures similar to those shown in  and illustrate the formation of THz FC via DFG of emission lines of a mid-IR FC formed via FWM of the two mid-IR pump frequencies generated by the two quantum cascade heterostructures. The QCL was operated in pulsed mode (100 ns current pulses at 100 kHz repetition frequency) at room temperature at high bias currents (2.5 A pump current) and a broadband mid-IR multi-mode comb-like emission spectrum was observed as shown in . The THz emission of the same QCL device was also measured and a comb-like THz spectrum was observed as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["610","1","620"]},"In cases where feedback grating  comprises multiple, independently biased DBRs as discussed above, THz emission spectra comprising sets of THz FC may be generated by suitable adjustment of the independent biases. By adjusting the bias associated with particular DBRs, THz FCs within the set of THz FC may be selectively turned on or off, thereby allowing the controlled selection of subset of the set of THz FCs.","The QCL devices disclosed herein may be operated as pulsed mode or continuous wave (CW) lasers. For certain applications, CW operation at room temperatures may be useful. Exemplary configurations of QCL devices with thermal packaging to achieve CW operation at room temperature are shown in . The elements of the QCL devices shown in  that utilize the elements of quantum cascade laser  of  reference the element numbers discussed in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 7()","FIG. 1"],"b":["700","701","709","702","701","700","704","705","708","700","711","704","705","700","708","711","709","702","709","701"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 7()","b":["750","752","759","750","754","753","755","751","750","758"]},"In other embodiments, the substrate  in  may be undoped or doped at a very low concentration (e.g., at a concentration of <10cm), in accordance with some embodiments. In such embodiments, Cherenkov THz DFG radiation may be additionally extracted through substrate  as described above in more detail in connection with . It should be noted that the nonlinear polarization wave in active region  may continue to emit Cherenkov THz waves laterally if the refractive index of the lateral material is higher than the mid-IR nof the active region.","The graphs in  illustrate how terahertz spectroscopy may be performed, in some embodiments. A terahertz frequency beam (for example, a terahertz frequency comb beam) may be sent through a sample that is to be analyzed. In this example, the terahertz beam may contain a harmonic series of evenly spaced terahertz frequencies nf, where n=1 . . . N. The probe beam may be then superimposed on a heterodyne detector with another terahertz frequency comb (for example, from a local oscillator) with a slightly different frequency spacing nfas shown in graph . The two beams then interfere to produce power modulation at radio-frequencies (RF) beat nodes \u0394fn on a heterodyne detector, where \u0394f=|f1\u2212f2|<<f1, f2 as shown in graph . The RF beat node \u0394fn may be viewed as a heterodyne signal that measures ncomb component of the probe beam. The set of RF beat nodes at frequencies \u0394fn, n=1 . . . N provides information on the intensities of the frequency-components of the probe frequency comb.","Thus, a frequency comb terahertz spectrometer may be created that consists of a frequency comb probe source, a frequency comb local oscillator, a sample, a detector, and an RF spectrum analyzer configured to detect RF beat nodes resulting from the heterodyne detector. Such a spectrometer may have no moving parts, may measure sample spectral properties simultaneously for all frequency comb frequencies, and may be highly sensitive due to heterodyne detection principle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIGS. 9 (), (), and ()","FIG. 9()","FIG. 9()","FIG. 9()"]},"The systems may be used to characterize the emission linewidth of a fixed-frequency distributed feedback terahertz DFG-QCL sources. In such experiments, output from one single-terahertz frequency DFG-QCL may be mixed with that from another single terahertz frequency DFG-QCL with slightly shifted terahertz emission. The generated beats modes may be used to determine terahertz emission linewidth. In addition, terahertz emission linewidth of terahertz DFG-QCLs in pulsed and CW operation may be compared to determine whether terahertz emission from DFG-QCLs remains narrow in pulsed operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"In some embodiments, the method described here may be implemented using one or more of the devices described and shown in one or more of the previous figures.","The method begins at  where, at block , one or more mid-infrared frequencies are generated based at least upon optical transitions in one or more quantum cascade heterostructures in an active region. The one or more quantum cascade heterostructures are concurrently configured with a significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility, a significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility, and an insignificant group velocity dispersion for mid-infrared laser modes.","At block , a set of mid-infrared frequencies (that may include a mid-infrared frequency comb) is generated in the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a four-wave mixing of the one or more mid-infrared frequencies. The four-wave mixing arises at least from the significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility and the insignificant group velocity dispersion.","At block , a set of terahertz frequencies (that may include a mid-infrared frequency comb) is generated in the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a difference frequency generation from mid-infrared frequency pairs selected from the set of mid-infrared frequencies. The difference frequency generation arises at least from the significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility.","The method subsequently ends at .","One or more embodiments are disclosed. It should be noted that these and any other embodiments are exemplary and are intended to be illustrative rather than limiting. While what is disclosed is widely applicable to various types of systems, a skilled person will recognize that it is impossible to include all of the possible embodiments and contexts in this disclosure. Upon reading this disclosure, many alternative embodiments will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art.","Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as hardware, firmware, software, or combinations of those. To illustrate clearly this interchangeability of hardware, firmware, and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Those of skill in the art may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application.","Although specific embodiments have been described above, these embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure, even where only a single embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature. Examples of features provided in the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless stated otherwise. The above description is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.","The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of features disclosed herein (either explicitly or implicitly), or any generalization thereof, whether or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Accordingly, new claims may be formulated during prosecution of this application (or an application claiming priority thereto) to any such combination of features. In particular, with reference to the appended claims, features from dependent claims may be combined with those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in the specific combinations enumerated in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"E. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects and advantages may become apparent upon reading the detailed description and upon reference to the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 1()","FIG. 1()"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
