---
title: Method and system for managing contact information in a universal plug and play home network environment
abstract: The present invention provides a method and system for managing contact information in a universal plug and play (UPnP) home network environment. In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of a telephony server (TS) for providing contact information to a telephony control point (TelCP) in a universal plug and play home network environment. The method includes receiving a request for providing contact information updates associated with at least one contact entry from the TelCP connected to the TS in an UPnP home network environment. The method further includes obtaining the requested contact information updates from an address book associated with the at least one contact entry. The method also includes providing the obtained contact information updates associated with the at least one contact entry to the TelCP.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467847&OS=09467847&RS=09467847
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09467847
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150804
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE PRESENT INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of, and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 to, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14\/006,043 filed on Sep. 18, 2013, now U.S. Pat. No. 9,191,501, which is a National Stage application of Intl Pat. App. No. PCT\/KR2012\/001965, which was filed on Mar. 19, 2012 and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(a) to Indian Pat. App. No. 839\/CHE\/2011, which was filed on Mar. 18, 2011, the entire disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to the field of universal plug and play (UPnP) communication, and more particularly relates to management of contact information in an UPnP home network environment.","2. Description of the Related Art","Recently, UPnP telephony has extended telephony experience in the home. The UPnP telephony also has developed an address book feature in the UPnP telephony called as a Phone data Model. The phone data model is a profiling standard for accessing phone related setting using devices like Television (TV) so that the user can access the phone settings using the TV device. The TV acts as a telephony control point (TelCP) to control phone related setting in a telephony server (TS) (e.g., mobile phone).","The phone data model also defines an address book which enables the user to manage the address book from the TCP devices like TV. A configuration management service (CMS) is defined by the UPnP forum allows the user to access the address book for adding a new contact entry, deleting existing contact entry, and browsing contacts.","However, the TS does not allow the TelCP provides notification in case contact information associated with contacts is updated in an address book. Also, the TS does not allow the TelCP to share personal contact card with a remote party (e.g., WAN user).","The present invention provides a method and system for managing contact information in a universal plug and play (UPnP) home network environment. In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of a telephony server (TS) for providing updates to contact information to a telephony control point (TelCP) in a universal plug and play home network environment. The method includes receiving a request for providing contact information updates associated with at least one contact entry from the TelCP connected to the TS in an UPnP home network environment. The method further includes obtaining the requested contact information updates from an address book associated with the at least one contact entry. The method also includes providing the obtained contact information updates associated with the at least one contact entry to the TelCP.","In another aspect, a telephony server includes a processor, a communication interface coupled to the processor, and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory includes a contact information management module for performing the above described method.","In yet another aspect, a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein, that when executed by a telephony server, cause the telephony server to perform the method described above.","In further another aspect, a method of a TS for sharing a personal contact card of a UPnP user with a remote party includes receiving a request for a personal contact card associated with a user of a TelCP in a UPnP home network environment from a wireless area network (WAN) device, and determining whether the personal contact card is to be shared with the user of the WAN device. If the personal contact card is to be shared with the user of the WAN device, the method includes sending the personal contact card associated with the user of the TelCP with the WAN device. Otherwise, the method includes returning an error message to the WAN device.","In yet a further aspect, a telephony server includes a processor, a communication interface coupled to the processor, and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory includes a contact information management module for performing the above described method.","In still another aspect, a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein, that when executed by a telephony server, cause the telephony server to perform the method described above.","Other features of the embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.","The present invention provides a method and system for managing contact information in a universal plug and play (UPnP) home network environment.","The drawings described herein are for illustration purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way.","The present invention provides a method and system for managing contact information in a universal plug and play home network environment. In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","The terms \u2018contact information updates\u2019 and \u2018update to the contact information\u2019 are used interchangeable throughout the document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","102","104","106","118","104","108","110","106","116","102","102","102","104","112","104","106","114"]},"In an exemplary operation, consider that the TelCP A requests the TS  to provide contact information updates associated with a contact entry in the local address book \/the network address book . The contact entry in the local address book \/network address book  may be associated with another TelCP user or a WAN user. The user of the TelCP A sends a request for subscribing contact information updates associated with one or more contact entry so that the TelCP user can stay up-to-date with the contact information associated with the contact entries in his\/her address book. In an exemplary implementation, when the TelCP A wishes to subscribe contact information updates associated with the contact entries, the TelCP A invokes ContactSubscribe( ) action with arguments ContactstoSubscribe and ContactInfo for requesting the TS  to send the contact information updates associated with the contact entry. Similarly, for unsubscribing the contact information updates associated with the contact entry, the TelCP A invokes ContactUnsubscribe( ) action with argument ContactstoUnsubscribe. Accordingly, the TS  maintains subscription request information in a state variable called \u201cSubscribedContacts\u201d which carries all the information regarding the subscription of contact information updates. Exemplary structure for \u201cSubscribedContacts\u201d is depicted in APPENDIX \u2018A\u2019.","Based on the request, the contact information management module  obtains contact information updates associated with the contact entry from the local address book  or the network address book . The minimum information required for obtaining the contact information updates includes the contact ID of the contact entry, state of the subscription, and contact information updates to be obtained. Accordingly, the TS  provides the obtained contact information updates to the TelCP A via the UPnP home network .","In one embodiment, the contact information management module  subscribes to the contact information updates associated with the contact entry so that the subscribed contact information updates can be provided to the TelCP A when any updates are made to the contact information associated with the contact entry as shown in . For example, the user of TelCP  can automatically receive contact information updates from the TS  upon the changes to the contact entry in the local address book \/the network address book . The changes to the contact entry may include change in a telephony number, change in the status and\/or change in a display image of any of the contact entries associated with the user of the TelCP A.","In another embodiment, the contact information management module  fetches the contact information updates associated with the contact entry from the local address book \/the network address book  upon receiving the request from the TelCP A and provides the fetched contact information updates to the TelCP A as illustrated in . For example, the contact information management module  fetches the contact information updates from the local address book \/the network address book  when the TS  is a mobile phone due to high cost involved in the wireless data communication. In an exemplary implementation, the TS  may fetch the contact information updates from the network address book  using \u2018FetchContactInfo( )\u2019 action with input arguments \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 and \u2018ShareInfo\u2019. The input argument \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 contain target contact identifiers associated with contact entry having reference to the local address book  for which contact information updates needs to be fetched. Exemplary structure of the input argument \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 is depicted in APPENDIX \u2018B\u2019. The input argument \u2018ShareInfo\u2019 contains a list of contact information elements to be fetched. This input argument can contain empty string in case entire contact information is to be fetched from the local address book . For example, the contact information management module  checks for the contact entry in the local address book  and identifies the network address book  for the corresponding contact entry. Then, the contact information management module  initiates a fetch contact information updates request to the WAN server  having the network address book  where the target contact entry is stored. Once, the contact information updates associated with the contact entry are fetched from the network address book , then the contact information management module  updates the local address book  with the contact information updates associated with the contact entry and provides the contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TelCP A.","In another exemplary operation, consider that the WAN device A sends a request for a personal contact card (PCC) associated with a user of the TelCP A to the TS  via the WAN server . A PCC basically defines own profile information of a TelCP user. It is appreciated that, the WAN device A may also send a request for contact invitation or contact sharing to the TS  instead of the request for the PCC. The TS  uses a new state variable for handling the request for sharing the PCC associated with the TelCP user. Exemplary state variable used for handling the request for sharing a PCC associated with a TelCP user is depicted in \u2018APPENDIX C\u2019. The format of the incoming requests state variable is an XML document. The state variable includes information associated with the request for sharing the PCC including but not limited to type of incoming request, initiator of the request, unique resource locator point to the contact entry, and unique request identifier.","When the request is received, the TS  changes the state variable and notifies regarding the request for sharing the PCC to the TelCPs A-N. Accordingly, the user of the TelCPs A-N accepts or rejects the request to share the PCC with the user of the WAN device A. In some cases, the user of the TelCPs A-N may accept the request for PCC share but may filter the information in the PCC to be shared with the WAN user. For example, the TelCPs A-N may accept or reject the request for sharing the PCC by invoking Accept( ) or Reject( ) action. If the user of the TelCPs A-N accepts the request to share the PCC, then the contact information management module  obtains the PCC from the local address book \/the network address book  and sends the PCC associated with the user of the TelCPs A-N to the user of the WAN device A via the WAN server . If the user of the TelCPs A-N rejects the request to share the PCC, then the contact information management module  sends an error message indicating failure to process the request for PCC to the user of the WAN device A.","In one exemplary implementation, the TelCP A invokes GetValues( ) with parameter arguments as depicted in APPENDIX \u2018D\u2019. Consequently, the GetValues( ) returns the ParametersValueList output argument which returns the PCC information in the contact element as shown in APPENDIX \u2018E\u2019.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","102","202","102","204","104","110","110","206","104","110","208","104","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["250","102","252","102","254","104","110"]},"If the contact entry is not available in the local address book , then at step , the TS  obtains the contact information updates from the network address book . At step , the TS  updates the local address book  with the contact information updates associated with the contact entry. At step , the TS  provides the requested contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TelCP A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","102","304","104","110","104","306","104"]},"If the contact entry does not belong to the local address book , then the TS  sends a request for subscribing contact information updates associated with the contact entry using network address book application programming interfaces (NAB APIs), at step . At step , the WAN server  sends contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TS  when any changes are made to the contact information associated with the contact entry. At step , the TS  updates the contact information updates associated with the contact entry in the local address book . At step , the TS  provides the requested contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TelCP A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","102","102","116"]},"The input argument \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 contain the target contact identifiers for which the contact updates needs to be fetched. The \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 includes reference to the contact entry in the local address book . The example structure for input argument \u2018TargetContacts\u2019 is shown in the APPENDIX \u2018B\u2019. The input argument \u2018ShareInfo\u2019 contains a list of contact information elements to be fetched (e.g., name, email etc.). The input argument \u2018ShareInfo\u2019 contains comma separated contact information element. The input argument \u2018ShareInfo\u2019 can contain empty string to share entire contact information from the local address book .","At step , the TS  acknowledges the receipt of the request for fetching contact information updates. At step , the TS  determines whether the contact entry for which the contact information updates is to be fetched belongs to the local address book . At step , the TS  retrieves the contact information updates from the local address book . At step , the TS  sends the contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TelCP A.","If the contact entry does not belong to the local address book , then at step , the TS  sends a request for fetching the contact information updates from the network address book . At step , the WAN server  sends the contact information updates associated with the contact entry in response to the request. At step , the TS  updates the local address book  with the fetched contact information updates. At step , the TS  provides the requested contact information updates associated with the contact entry to the TelCP A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","118","102","504","104","102","104","104","104","102"]},"At step , the TelCP A sends a response message indicating acceptance or rejection of the request from the WAN user. The TelCP A can accept or reject the incoming request by invoking an accept( ) or reject( ) action. For example, when the incoming request is evented by the TS  via the state variable \u2018IncomingRequest\u2019, the TelCP A can accept or reject the particular request by invoking the accept( ) or reject( ) action.","At step , the TS  determines whether the PCC is to be shared with the WAN user based on the response message. At step , the TS  stores the sender contact information in the local address book . At step , the TS  sends the PCC associated with the TelCP A to the WAN device A if the TelCP A accepts the request to share the PCC via the network address book  or as a message. Otherwise, at step , the TS  sends an error message indicating failure to share the PCC associated with the TelCP user to the WAN device A so that the WAN device A displays the error message to the WAN user.","Moreover, in one embodiment, a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein, that when executed by the TS , cause the TS  to perform the method illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIGS. 1-5"],"b":["600","604","104","602","108","108","104","602","102","604","108","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIGS. 1-5"],"b":["700","704","104","702","108","108","704","702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","804","104","802","108","800","802","116","806","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["104","104","902","904","906","908","910","912","914","916","918"]},"The processor , as used herein, means any type of computational circuit, such as, but not limited to, a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a complex instruction set computing microprocessor, a reduced instruction set computing microprocessor, a very long instruction word microprocessor, an explicitly parallel instruction computing microprocessor, a graphics processor, a digital signal processor, or any other type of processing circuit. The processor  may also include embedded controllers, such as generic or programmable logic devices or arrays, application specific integrated circuits, single-chip computers, smart cards, and the like.","The memory  may be volatile memory and non-volatile memory. The memory  includes the contact information management module  in the form of instructions stored therein to managing contact information in the UPnP home network environment, according to the embodiments of the present subject matter. A variety of computer-readable storage media may be stored in and accessed from the memory elements. Memory elements may include any suitable memory device(s) for storing data and machine-readable instructions, such as read only memory, random access memory, erasable programmable read only memory, electrically erasable programmable read only memory, hard drive, removable media drive for handling memory cards, Memory Sticks\u2122, and the like.","Embodiments of the present subject matter may be implemented in conjunction with modules, including functions, procedures, data structures, and application programs, for performing tasks, or defining abstract data types or low-level hardware contexts. Machine-readable instructions stored on any of the above-mentioned storage media may be executable by the processor . For example, a computer program may include machine-readable instructions capable of managing contact information in an UPnP domain, according to the teachings and herein described embodiments of the present subject matter. In one embodiment, the computer program may be included on a storage medium and loaded from the storage medium to a hard drive in the non-volatile memory.","The components such as the transceiver , communication interfaces , the display , the input device , and the cursor control  are well known to the person skilled in the art and hence the explanation is thereof omitted.","In accordance with the foregoing description, the TS  obtains contact information updates associated with a contact entry using a fetch or subscribe feature. Referring to , a new element per contact entry is defined in the local address book \/network address book  to subscribe to particular contact information. The element defined is child element of the \u201cContact\u201d element of the address book. It is also possible that the TelCP user may subscribe to the group information. In such case, the new element is present under the group element.","Additionally, a new element called \u201csynch\u201d is defined. If the element \u2018synch\u2019 is true, then any updates for the particular contact is fetched and updated in the local address book . This is useful in the social networking case. In the case where the network address book  supports the contact subscription behavior and if the element \u2018synch\u2019 is made true then the contact subscription is automatically initiated using the network address book functionality (OMA ? CAB) via the network address book APIs.","Referring to , a single global element is defined as a child element of the local address book \/network address book  to specify fetch or subscribe behavior. For example, the TelCP user may use a network address book identifier to subscribe or fetch the updated contact information for a particular contact entry.","Referring to , a new element \u2018addressbooksettings\u2019 is defined as the child element of the address book to subscribe contact information updates from the network address book. When the TelCP A wants to subscribe for contact information updates associated with a contact entry, then the TelCP A updates the address book setting element and include the subscription information in the \u201cContact Subscription\u201d element. The \u201ccontact\u201d element is used to identify the contact entry to be subscribed and \u201cmethod\u201d attribute is used to identify whether the contact information updates is to be fetched or subscribed. The \u201cstatus\u201d element is used for sending the status of the operation to the TelCP A. So, whenever the TelCP A sends a request for subscribing contact information updates of a contact entry, then the TS  attempts to subscribe for the requested updates associated with the contact entry and also update the status of the instruction in the \u201cStatus\u201d element.","As shown in , a new element as a \u2018child element\u2019 of address book is defined as \u201cPCC\u201d. The new element contains all personal information of the TelCP user himself. Alternatively, the new element can be placed as a child element of the Phone Data Model as shown in .","As shown in , a new element \u201cIncoming contact Subscription\u201d is defined as a child element of the \u201cIncoming Request\u201d. This element contains the incoming contact subscription request. The \u201cFrom\u201d element carry the originator of the subscribe request, \u201cStatus\u201d carry the status of the request and \u201cRequested Information\u201d carry the request information required for the originator user.","The present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. Furthermore, the various devices, modules, and the like described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry, for example, complementary metal oxide semiconductor based logic circuitry, firmware, software and\/or any combination of hardware, firmware, and\/or software embodied in a machine readable medium. For example, the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors, logic gates, and electrical circuits, such as application specific integrated circuit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"APPENDIX \u2018A\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<SubscribedContacts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<contact>"]},{"entry":[{},"<contactID>ID of the Session<\/contactID>"]},{"entry":[{},"<State>Pending<\/State>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ContactInfo>Status of the session<\/ContactInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/contact>"]},{"entry":[{},"<!-- Any other contacts (if any) go here.-->"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/SubscribedContacts>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"APPENDIX \u2018B\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<TargetContacts"]},{"entry":[{},"xsi:schemaLocation=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:phone:peer"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/schemas\/phone\/peer-v1.xsd\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"xmlns:xsi=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema-instance\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"xmlns:peer=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:phone:peer\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<contact>"]},{"entry":[{},"<peer:id>"]},{"entry":[{},"The identifier of the Peer (e.g., phone number, etc.)"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/peer:id>"]},{"entry":[{},"<peer:name>A user friendly name for the Peer<\/peer:name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<peer:contactInstanceId>"]},{"entry":[{},"The instance identifier for a contact referred by the Peer"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/peer:contactInstanceId>"]},{"entry":[{},"<peer:groupInstanceId>"]},{"entry":[{},"The instance identifier for a group referred by the Peer"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/peer:groupInstanceId>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/contact>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/TargetContacts>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"APPENDIX \u2018C\u2019"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<AddressBook:incomingRequests"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xmlns:AddressBook=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:phone:addressbook"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/schemas\/phone\/addressbook-v1.xsd\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xmlns:xsi=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema-instance\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xmlns:peer=\u201durn:schemas-upnp-org:phone:peer\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<request>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<type>PCC Share<\/type>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<reqID>123<\/reqID>\u2003\u2003\u2003<fromcontactid>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<peer:id>contact id of the requester<peer:\/id>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/fromcontactid>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<status>pending\/Accepted\/Rejected<\/status>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<note>informative text information, e.g. sharing jeyoung's"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003mobile number"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/note>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<sharedinformationURL>URL pointing to additional information"},{"entry":"for e.g shared contact information..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/sharedinformationURL>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/request>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<request>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<type>PCC Share<\/type>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<reqID>123<\/reqID>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<fromcontactid>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<peer:id>contact id of the requester<peer:\/id>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/fromcontactid>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<status>pending<\/status>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<note>informative text information, e.g. sharing jeyoung's"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003mobile number"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/note>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<sharedinformationURL>...<\/sharedinformationURL>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/request>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2212<!--- Any other incoming requests currently active --->"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/AddressBook:incomingRequests>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"APPENDIX \u2018D\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<cms:ContentPathList"]},{"entry":[{},"xmlns:cms=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:dm:cms\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"xmlns:xsi=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema-instance\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"xsi:schemaLocation=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:dm:cms"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/schemas\/dm\/cms.xsd\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ContentPath>\/UPnP\/PHONE\/AddressBook\/PCC\/<\/ContentPath>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/cms:ContentPathList>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"APPENDIX \u2018E\u2019"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<cms: ParameterValueList"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xmlns:cms=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:dm:cms\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xmlns:xsi=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema-instance\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003xsi:schemaLocation=\u201curn:schemas-upnp-org:dm:cms"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/schemas\/dm\/cms.xsd\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<ParameterPath>\/UPnP\/PHONE\/AddressBook\/PCC\/Identification\/"},{"entry":"FormattedName<\/ParameterPath>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Value>MAYURESH MADHUKAR PATIL<\/Value>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<ParameterPath>\/UPnP\/PHONE\/AddressBook\/PCC\/Identification\/"},{"entry":"NickName<\/ParameterPath>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Value>MAYU<\/Value>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003[. . .]"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<ParameterPath>\/UPnP\/PHONE\/AddressBook\/PCC\/Explanatory\/"},{"entry":"Sound\/Value<\/ParameterPath>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Value>MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgICBEUwD...iBTeXN0<\/Value>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Parameter>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/cms:ParameterValueList>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 10-10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
