---
title: Multi-channel and multi-modal language interpretation system utilizing a gated or non-gated configuration
abstract: A system, computer program product, and process are provided for multi-channel language interpretation. An interpreter voice communication device receives, from a PSAP communication device on a first channel, a request for language translation of a communication. The interpreter voice communication device also receives data through the first channel that assists a language interpreter in performing the translation. An interpreter computing device establishes a language interpretation session through a second channel with a PSAP workstation. The interpreter computing device also provides a real-time language translation of the communication based upon the data received through the first channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374465&OS=09374465&RS=09374465
owner: Language Line Services, Inc.
number: 09374465
owner_city: Monterey
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","This disclosure generally relates to the field of language interpretation. More particularly, the disclosure relates to multi-channel language interpretation.","2. General Background","Many current emergency response systems provide users with the ability to request emergency response services such as police, medical, and firefighting services in the event of an emergency via voice based communication technology. For instance, a user in an emergency situation typically utilizes a telephone to place a call to a public safety access point (\u201cPSAP\u201d) to request such services. The PSAP is a call center that receives the telephone call from the user, routes the telephone call to a PSAP call taker that speaks with the caller to determine the necessary emergency services in addition to other information pertinent to the particular location and emergency, and dispatches the corresponding emergency services to the caller. As an example, the caller can place a telephone call to a predefined telephone number such as 911 to speak with a call taker at a PSAP such as a 911 call center.","Such current emergency response systems may only provide voice communications based upon a particular language. For example, the PSAP call taker may only speak English. The caller in the emergency situation would then have to speak English to communicate with the PSAP call taker in such configurations. As a result, a person that has Limited English Proficiency (\u201cLEP\u201d) would not be able to communicate effectively with a PSAP call taker. Therefore, the LEP may or may not receive the necessary emergency services in time to stop the emergency situation.","Further, voice based emergency response systems are limited in their applicability. For instance, a user that may be capable of providing a voice based communication may not be able to provide such a communication in the particular emergency situation. As an example, a user in a hostage situation is prevented from providing a voice based communication. Thus, such a user with access to a mobile device may not be able to request emergency services. In addition, a user that has a voice disability is prevented from providing a voice based communication.","Therefore, current voice based emergency response systems are not adequate for providing communication for those users speaking a different language or those users for which voice based communication is not feasible based upon the particular context of the emergency situation or a particular disability. Such deficiencies in current voice based emergency response systems may prevent effective dispatching of emergency services in emergency situations.","A system, computer program product, and process are provided for multi-channel language interpretation. An interpreter voice communication device receives, from a PSAP communication device on a first channel, a request for language translation of a communication. The interpreter voice communication device also receives data through the first channel that assists a language interpreter in performing the translation. An interpreter computing device establishes a language interpretation session through a second channel with a PSAP workstation. The interpreter computing device also provides a real-time language translation of the communication based upon the data received through the first channel.","The multi-channel language interpretation configurations are not limited to two channels as a plurality of channels having more than two channels may be utilized. Further, the multi-channel language interpretation configurations may be multi-modal as a variety of modes may be utilized to provide and receive communications such as text, voice, video, image, streaming, etc.","Further, the multi-channel language interpretation configurations may be gated or non-gated. A PSAP communication taker determines if the real-time language translation is sent to the communication provider, e.g., the LEP, based upon a gated configuration according to the discretion of the PSAP communication taker. Alternatively, the real-time language translation is provided directly to the communication provider based upon a non-gated configuration without the PSAP having discretion as to whether or not the translation is sent to the communication provider.","A multi-channel and multi-modal language interpretation system is provided so that language interpretation can be communicated effectively in situations such as non-verbal needs emergency situations. A communication taker can respond and dispatch pertinent services based upon an understanding of the situation described by the LEP and interpreted for the communication taker. A variety of modes, e.g., strings of text, images, videos, etc., may be utilized by the LEP to communicate with the communication taker.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["100","102"]},"The LEP texter  is an LEP that sends a string of text in a language other than English, e.g., Spanish, and requests a particular service. For instance, the LEP texter  may send a string of text in Spanish to an emergency call center, e.g., a 911 call center, in an emergency situation where a voice communication is not readily available. The LEP texter  sends the string of text in language A, e.g., Spanish, from a computing device . The computing device  may be a smartphone, tablet device, personal computer, laptop computer, etc.","The string of text is sent through a carrier network , e.g., a cellular network utilized by the computing device . The carrier network  routes the string of text to a corresponding PSAP server , e.g., a server for a 911 call center. The PSAP server  then routes the string of text to an available PSAP communication taker . The PSAP communication taker  reviews the received communication, e.g., the string of text in language A, and determines that the string of text is not in English. The PSAP communication taker  can then request a language interpretation session. If language A, e.g., Spanish, cannot easily be identified by the PSAP communication taker , a computer application service, e.g., a web service, may be called to identify the particular language for the PSAP communication taker .","The PSAP workstation  has a data storage device  that stores multi-channel code . The multi-channel code  is utilized by a processor of the PSAP workstation  to manage the multi-channel communication flow during the language interpretation session. A language interpretation session is initiated via the processor according to two channels, i.e., a text channel and a voice channel. A unique session identifier identifies the particular language interpretation session. The particular string of text initially sent by the LEP texter  is forwarded from the PSAP workstation  to a language interpreter  through an interpreter workstation . The interpreter workstation  has a data storage device  that also stores the multi-channel code . In one embodiment, the multi-channel code  is provided to the PSAP workstation  and the interpreter workstation  through an Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). The PSAP communication taker  also communicates via a voice channel with the language interpreter  from a PSAP communication device  to an interpreter communication device . The PSAP communication device  and the interpreter communication device  may be telephones, smartphones, or other devices capable of performing voice communications. During the voice communication, the PSAP communication taker  provides the unique session identifier to the language interpreter , a computer system, or an interactive voice response (\u201cIVR\u201d) systems so that the language interpreter  is able to view the same user interface that is viewed by the PSAP communication taker .","The language interpreter  utilizes the initial forwarded text in language A from the LEP texter  and additional information provided by the PSAP communication taker  in language B, e.g., English, concerning the particular situation to provide an effective language interpretation. For instance, the PSAP communication taker  may have additional information concerning the particular LEP texter  that was not provided in the string of text in Language A, e.g., location data determined from GPS coordinates, data previously provided by the LEP texter  to a PSAP call center, additional information received from other peoples that have also communicated with the PSAP call center about the same situation, etc. The language interpreter  then performs a language interpretation of the string of text in language A to language B. The language interpreter  then sends the translated text in language B to the PSAP communication taker  through the PSAP workstation .","For example, the initial string of text in language A, e.g., Spanish, may have been \u201cHay un fuego.\u201d The PSAP communication taker  may have recognized that the string of text was not in English and determined independently or with utilization of a language identification service that language A is Spanish. The PSAP communication taker  initiates a language interpretation session with available language interpreter . The PSAP workstation  sends the initial string of text in Spanish to the language interpreter  and manages a voice communication between the PSAP communication taker  and the language interpreter . The PSAP communication taker  then provides any additional information that may be helpful to the language interpreter  to perform a translation of the initial string of text. The language interpreter  then translates the initial string of text to a string of text in language B, e.g., English. Therefore, the language interpreter  translates the string of text to \u201cThere is a fire.\u201d The translated text is then sent to the PSAP workstation  for viewing by the PSAP communication taker . The translated text may only be sent to the PSAP communication taker  as providing the translated text to the LEP texter  in a language that is not understandable to the LEP texter  in an emergency situation may only further complicate the situation.","In an alternative embodiment, the language interpreter  may provide the translation of the initial string of text to the PSAP communication taker  through the voice communication rather than through a translated string of text so that the language interpreter  does not have to type the translated string of text to possibly expedite the interpretation process. In another embodiment, the language interpreter  provides the translation of the initial string of text to the PSAP communication taker  through voice and text.","After the PSAP communication taker  understands the initial string of text, the PSAP communication taker  formulates a response in a string of text in language B, e.g., English, and sends that formulated response to the language interpreter  through the interpreter workstation . The language interpreter  then sends the string of text translated into language A, e.g., Spanish, to the PSAP communication taker . This configuration is a gated configuration since the PSAP communication  determines if the translated text should be sent to the LEP texter . If the PSAP communication taker  determines that the translated response text should be sent to the LEP texter , the PSAP workstation  sends the translated response text to the PSAP server . The PSAP server  then sends the translated response text to the LEP texter .","Utilizing the previous example, the PSAP communication taker  may want to formulate the following string of text in response to the initial string of text of the LEP texter : \u201cWhat is your address?\u201d The PSAP communication taker  sends the response text in language B, e.g., English, to the language interpreter . The language interpreter  then translates the response text to language A, e.g., Spanish, as follows: \u201cCual es su direccion?\u201d The interpreter workstation  then sends the response text to the PSAP workstation  so that the PSAP communication taker  can have the discretion of whether or not to send the translated response text in a particular instance to the LEP texter  according to the gated configuration. For instance, the PSAP communication taker  may have received external information concerning the situation that leads the PSAP communication taker  to believe that sending a text message to the LEP texter  may draw too much attention to the LEP texter  in a hostage situation. The PSAP communication taker  may then wait to send the translated response.","In an alternative embodiment, the language interpreter  may translate the formulated response as a voice communication rather than as a text message. In another embodiment, the language interpreter  may utilize both a voice communication and a text message to send the formulated response to the language interpreter .","The PSAP communication taker  and the language interpreter  may then perform further iterations of text translation and text response formulation so that the PSAP communication taker  can obtain enough information to dispatch corresponding services to the LEP texter . Although only two channels are illustrated, e.g., text and voice, more than two channels having additional types of communication may be utilized to perform language interpretation and response formulation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["150","122","108","102","110","102","110","102","102"]},"The embodiments described in  are not limited to language interpretation of a spoken language. For example, sign language can be interpreted through modes such as image and\/or video.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2K","FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["104","112","122","200","104","104","200","102"]},"The LEP  may utilize the computing device  to send a text message  such as \u201cHay un fuego\u201d to a PSAP facility, e.g., a 911 call and\/or text center. The text message  that is sent to the PSAP facility is displayed on the computing device GUI .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["210","112","210","211","110","102","212","110","120"]},"For example, the LEP texter window  displays the text message  that was also displayed by the computing device GUI  illustrated in . After determining that the text message  is not English, i.e., either by the PSAP communication taker  or through a language identification web service, the PSAP communication taker  can send the Spanish text message  to the interpreter  for language interpretation. In one embodiment, the PSAP communication taker  can simply click the text message  with a user input so that the text message  appears in the PSAP communication taker window . In another embodiment, the PSAP communication taker  can manually type the text message  into the PSAP communication taker window . In yet another embodiment, the text message  may automatically appear in the PSAP communication taker window . Utilizing any such embodiments, the PSAP communication taker  can send the text message  to the interpreter  for language interpretation by providing an input such as selecting a button that sends the text message  to the interpreter  for language interpretation. Although two windows are displayed in the PSAP communication taker GUI , a single window or more than two windows may be utilized to display the text messages of the LEP texter .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["110","120","110","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 1A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["220","122","220","222","224","222","102","110","222","202","224","120","110","202","110","202","202","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["116","112","122"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"],"b":["220","202","120","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 2E","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2D"],"b":["210","222","122","222","110","222","112","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 2F","FIG. 2E"],"b":["210","224","102","110","110","224","120","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 2G","FIG. 2C"],"b":["220","224","224"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 2H","FIG. 2G"],"b":["220","224","120","102","110","120","110","102","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 2I","b":["210","110","226","226","212","120","226","102","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 2J","b":["210","110","226","102","226","211","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 2K","FIG. 2K"],"b":["200","104","226","226","226"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","301","102","300","302","110","300","303","110","300","304","300","305","110"]},"If the process  determines that the communication is not in English at the decision block , then the process  proceeds to a process block  to find an interpreter for the corresponding language. The corresponding language may be determined by a hub to which the PSAP communication taker  sends the communication. After receiving a response from the hub with the identified language, the PSAP communication taker  may then request language interpretation based upon the identified language, e.g., Spanish, and the language spoken by the PSAP communication taker , e.g., English. The process  then proceeds to a process block  to establish a multi-channel interpretation session. For example, the PSAP communication taker  may initiate a first channel communication, e.g., voice, to the interpreter  of the identified language, e.g., Spanish. After the connection is established between the two endpoints, e.g., PSAP communication taker  and interpreter , the native language communication, e.g., a string of text in Spanish, is routed to the interpreter workstation GUI . The interpreter  performs a translation of the Spanish string of text and sends an English translation of the Spanish string of text to the PSAP communication taker  through a second channel communication, e.g., a communication based upon sending and receiving strings of text. The interpreter may additionally or alternatively read the English translation of the Spanish string of text to the PSAP communication taker  through the voice channel in English. The PSAP communication taker  may then prepare a response to the LEP, e.g., a follow up question. The PSAP communication taker  may then verbally provide the response to the interpreter  through the first channel so that the interpreter  may translate the response into the native language, e.g., Spanish. In another embodiment, the PSAP communication taker  may additionally or alternatively provide the response to the interpreter  through the second channel. Further, the process  proceeds to a decision block  to determine if the configuration is gated or non-gated. If the process  determines that the configuration is non-gated, the process  proceeds to a process block  to send language translations of the PSAP communication taker responses, e.g., the response, directly to the LEP . In another embodiment, the response is also sent to the PSAP communication taker . The process  then proceeds to the process block  so that the PSAP communication taker  may determine the emergency needs of the LEP  and then to the process block  so that the PSAP communication taker  may determine the emergency services.","If the process  determines that the configuration is gated at the decision block , then the process  sends the language translations of the PSAP communication taker  to the PSAP communication taker . The PSAP communication taker  may then review the translated responses at the discretion of the PSAP communication taker  prior to sending the translated responses to the LEP . In one embodiment, the PSAP communication taker  receives the response in both the language of the language spoken by the LEP Texter , e.g., Spanish, and the language spoken by the PSAP communication taker , e.g., English. The PSAP communication taker  may then read the English portion of the message to verify that the PSAP communication taker  wants to send the message in Spanish to the LEP Texter . The process  then sends the language translations of the responses of the PSAP communication taker  to the LEP  if the PSAP communication taker  provides such a verification input. The process  then proceeds to the process block  so that the PSAP communication taker  may determine the emergency needs of the LEP  and then to the process block  so that the PSAP communication taker  may determine the emergency services.","The translation aspects of the process  may be iterated until the communication between the PSAP communication taker  and the LEP texter  is over, e.g., the emergency is over. The PSAP communication taker  may then terminate the communication session with the interpreter .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","112","122","400","402","112","110","126","120","122","120","122","402","402","402","110","120","402"]},"The web service hub  is platform independent. As an example, the web service hub  utilizes industry standard SOAP compliant XML. Therefore, the web service hub  may be utilized to establish language interpretation sessions between different types of computing systems.","The processes described herein may be implemented in a general, multi-purpose or single purpose processor. Such a processor will execute instructions, either at the assembly, compiled or machine-level, to perform the processes. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of the figures corresponding to the processes and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer-aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of storing those instructions and include a CD-ROM, DVD, magnetic or other optical disc, tape, silicon memory, e.g., removable, non-removable, volatile or non-volatile, etc.","A computer is herein intended to include any device that has a general, multi-purpose or single purpose processor as described above. For example, a computer may be a personal computer, laptop computer, set top box, cell phone, smartphone, tablet device, portable media player, video player, or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","500","502","504","506","508","508"]},"The multi-channel code  may be represented by one or more software applications (or even a combination of software and hardware, e.g., using application specific integrated circuits (ASIC)), where the software is loaded from a storage medium, (e.g., a magnetic or optical drive, diskette, or non-volatile memory) and operated by the processor  in the memory  of the computer. As such, the multi-channel code  (including associated data structures) of the present disclosure may be stored on a computer readable medium, e.g., RAM memory, magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like. The system  may be utilized for a hardware implementation of any of the configurations provided herein.","It is understood that the computer program products, apparatuses, systems, and processes described herein may also be applied in other types of apparatuses, systems, and processes. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various adaptations and modifications of the embodiments of the apparatuses, systems, and processes described herein may be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the present computer program products, apparatuses, systems, and processes. Therefore, it is to be understood that, within the scope of the appended claims, the present computer program products, apparatuses, systems, and processes may be practiced other than as specifically described herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above-mentioned features of the present disclosure will become more apparent with reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals denote like elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2E","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2F","FIG. 2E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2G","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2H","FIG. 2G"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2I"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2J"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2K"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
