---
title: System for sampling and/or analysis of particles in a gaseous environment
abstract: A system for trapping particles in a gas comprising a chamber; an intake for intake of a gas containing at least one particle to be trapped and released, and an outlet for exit of the gas out of the chamber containing at least one particle; a first passage operatively connected to the intake operating to create a flow of a gas containing at least one particle into the chamber, a second passage operatively connected to the outlet for flow of the gas; a third passage operatively connected to a gaseous flow for creating a flow of fluid in a direction substantially opposite to the transfer of gas from the first passage so as to counteract the flow of gas from the first passage; an image sensor for recording an image; and a laser for generating a light beam for forming a photophoretic trap between the first and third passages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448155&OS=09448155&RS=09448155
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09448155
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150616
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/998,366 filed Jun. 25, 2014, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalities. It resulted at least in part from research supported by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) funds and by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) under contract number HDTRA136477, US Army Research Office grants W911NF-13-1-0429 and W911NF-13-1-0297.","Measurements of single particles trapped in air have been made since the pioneering work on electro-quasistatic levitation (Fletcher, H., \u201cA Determination of Avogadro's Constant N from Measurements of the Brownian Movements of Small Oil Drops Suspended In Air,\u201d Phys. Rev. 4, 440-453 (1914) and optical levitation (Ashkin, A., \u201cAcceleration and Trapping of Particles by Radiation Pressure,\u201d Phys. Rev. Lett. 24, 156-159 (1970). These techniques have been used to measure single-particle Raman spectra. The power of such Raman measurements is clearly recognized. However, the one reported attempt to measure single-particle Raman spectra of atmospheric aerosols achieved such a low sample rate that the authors wrote that the measurements were \u201ctedious.\u201d A problem in that approach is that charging of the aerosols was required. Only a fraction of the particles have the needed charge-to-mass ratio to be captured. Optical trapping using radiation pressure is useful for \u201csuspending relatively transparent particles in relatively transparent media,\u201d but it has not been used to sample and trap successively arriving particles from atmospheric air.","Previous attempts have been made using methods and\/or systems for particle trapping using photophoretic force. However, the previous methods for trapping particles in air are generally capture and trap one single particle from a large group of particles (e.g., a few to 1000's) passively (a particle is randomly trapped). Furthermore, in those methods, these particles are initially placed on a substrate or in a container and then forced into the air in a short time to generate very high particle concentrations for trapping. Such passive particle trapping approaches have low efficiency, are not suitable for continuously sampling and trapping.","The existing on-line analytical systems (e.g. single-particle fluorescence spectrometer, mass spectrometer) generally concentrate and focus the aerosol into a localized jet, and then the particles flows into an interrogation region carried by the airflow, where the particles are analyzed one-by-one as they rapidly flow through (they are not trapped in stationary at any location). The flowing through systems cannot be used for the measurement that has very weak signal such as Raman scattering signal, and also cannot be used for observing time-revolution process.","The existing optical trapping techniques used to study the physical, chemical, or biological properties of one or a few representative particles in air generally capture and trap the particles from a large group of particles (e.g., a few to 1000's). The particles to be trapped typically have to be with similar properties and are initially placed on a substrate or in a container and then forced into the air in a short time to generate very high particle concentrations for trapping. Such low efficiency, passive particle trapping approaches are not adequate for continuously sampling and trapping for the successively arriving particles with different properties.","The prior art technology includes methods and apparatus where particles are randomly captured and\/or trapped; such as when particles are spread out and randomly captured by entering a trap zone. Such processes are time-consuming and require the source of particles to be physically and chemically uniform; otherwise the trapped particles may not be representative of typical ones (due to the feature of randomization of the methods). This problem hinders instrumentation for continuously sampling and trapping aerosol particles that arrive successively in the trapping system from an air stream that likely have particles in different physical and chemical properties.","The present invention overcomes the above problems, as it affords the opportunity to capture and trap particles that have different properties. Particles may be continuously sampled and successively fed into the trapping region, held for observation and measured as long as needed. The present invention improves the particle trapping rate from the existed passive capturing methods. The present invention provides the optional capabilities of concentrating particles from air (or a gas), focusing these aerosol particles into a narrow jet, slowing the particles, trapping the particle in a region where the particle velocity has become very small, retaining the particle for as long as needed, and releasing the trapped particle in order to trap the next one. The present invention allows one to continuously sample successively arriving aerosol particles and suspend them for measurements.","The foregoing and other objects, features, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiments of the invention, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein:","A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.","The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well-known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term \u201cand\/or\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","It will be understood that when an element such as an object, layer, region or substrate is referred to as being \u201con\u201d or extending \u201conto\u201d another element, it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly on\u201d or extending \u201cdirectly onto\u201d another element, there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d to another element, it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly connected\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled\u201d to another element, there are no intervening elements present.","It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections, these elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example, when referring first and second passages, these terms are only used to distinguish one passage, element, component, region, layer or section from another passage, region, layer or section. Thus, a first passage, element, component, region, layer or section discussed below could be termed a second passage, element, component, region, layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.","Furthermore, relative terms, such as \u201clower\u201d or \u201cbottom\u201d and \u201cupper\u201d or \u201ctop,\u201d may be used herein to describe one element's relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example, if the device in the Figures is turned over, elements described as being on the \u201clower\u201d side of other elements would then be oriented on \u201cupper\u201d sides of the other elements. The exemplary term \u201clower\u201d, can therefore, encompass both an orientation of \u201clower\u201d and \u201cupper,\u201d depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly, if the device in one of the figures is turned over, elements described as \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d other elements would then be oriented \u201cabove\u201d the other elements. The exemplary terms \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d can, therefore, encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore, the term \u201couter\u201d may be used to refer to a surface and\/or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.","Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross-section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such, variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result, for example, of manufacturing techniques and\/or tolerances, are to be expected. Thus, embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes. Thus, the regions illustrated in the figures or configurations are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.","Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.","It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed \u201cadjacent\u201d another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.","A preferred embodiment design able to focus, concentrate, and also make these particles move slowly to be trapped in air from successive arriving airborne aerosol particles that are continuously sampled from air. The invention provides feeding methods for trapping particles in air, and is very useful in various on-line analytical applications, in which long-time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successive arriving particles (e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere, pharmaceutical or other production facilities) is required, as the invention permits each particle to be trapped for a short time (e.g. a few seconds) for observation or measurement. The present invention provides a new method for continuous sampling, trapping, holding, and releasing aerosol particles in air in an effective way that the entire process is actively controlled. A preferred embodiment comprises, inter alia, two components: 1) a laser and optics formed hollow cone surrounded by a conical high-intensity light surface that can trap absorbing particles carried into the cone by an air or gaseous stream. 2) two passages, which may be in the form of two co-axial nozzles operated in a counter flow mode, so that: i) particles are aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small-diameter jet; and ii) particles are slowed such that velocity of the particles approaches zero near the vertex of a hollow optical cone, so that particles move slowly enough to be trapped by photophoretic forces that are able to balance the small drag and gravitational forces.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention may be utilized as an online instrument for detecting and characterizing aerosols, particularly as a real-time device for detecting aerosolized biological, chemical threats using more informative optical signatures such as Raman spectra with a significant reduction of false positive alarm rate. The present invention provides the capability of on-site instrument for air quality characterization and monitoring, such as in a battlefield situation. The present invention further provides for long-time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successively arriving particles (e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere, pharmaceutical or other production facilities) by trapping the particles for a short time (e.g. 1 to a few seconds) for observation or measurement.","Potential commercial uses include: (1) On-line aerosol characterization instrumentation; (2) On-line material characterization (3) Pharmaceutical usage for drug testing and delivery (4) Single aerosol particle spectroscopic sampler.","A preferred embodiment system of the present invention comprises an integrated opto-aerodynamic system that can repeatedly sample, trap, and release airborne micron-size aerosol particles. The particles may be concentrated from as gas, such as air, for example, which transports them into a narrow jet. The jet is then slowed along with particles in it, in order to trap one or more absorbing or weakly-absorbing particles in a region where the jet velocity has become very small, The particle may then be held for as long as needed, and released in order to trap the next one. The system can utilize in conjunction with an on-line analytical system that provides for continuous sampling of successively arriving aerosol particles and holding the particles for measurements and time-related phenomena.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["10","38","42","13","13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["10","14","14","15","17","15","14","16","18","19","20","21","21","22","20","23","24","25","25","24","24","38","26","28","27","29","24","27","30","31","32","36","33","33","33","33","34","35","36","37","38","35","40","35","34"]},"Referring back to the beam splitter , the other beam  is reflected by optional mirrors A, B onto a cylindric lens  to form a laser sheet  to cover the cone as a high-intensity light wall on the open side of the hollow cone. It can hold the captured particle and also prevents other absorbing particles from entering the trapping region by photophoretic forces.","Parts in the integrated opto-aerodynamic embodiment illustrated in  include the counter-flow co-axial double-nozzle , , the optical chamber , the reflecting elliptical mirror , and the focusing spherical mirror .","In , one of the methods for generating aerosol  is also shown. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that in the case where the particles are in the air, generating aerosol particles would be unnecessary. When used in an experimental environment, the aerosol generator  comprises a container  containing the particles to be analyzed. Air is inputted through a hose or tubing  and outputted through a hose or tubing . A magnetic stirrer  operating in conjunction with a magnetic bar  stirs the particles\/powder at a sufficient rate to generate the aerosol particles . Aerosol particles  pass through outlet tubing or hose  into a pipette-like structure  have a side inlet  through which the aerosol enters and a top opening though which the clean air enters. The particles  pass downwards through a narrow region or nozzle or inlet  of the cylinder or pipette . A second chamber  having a narrowed outlet portion or nozzle  surrounds the nozzle or inlet portion . Aerosol particles  pass through the narrow inlet passage or nozzle  to the trapping region as explained above and shown in . Specifically, the two co-axial nozzles ,  (inlet and outlet passages, respectively) are operated in a counter flow mode so that particles  are aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small-diameter jet; and the particles  are slowed (by a counter flow of air from nozzle  which slows the jet in which they are entrained) until their vertical velocity approaches zero near the vertex of the hollow optical cone, so that particles  move slowly enough to be trapped by photophoretic forces that are able to balance the small drag and gravitational forces. The particles  can return via the outer coaxial nozzle  into the second chamber  to be exhausted via the outlet  if they are not trapped or released after trapping. At the same time clean air is provided though a third nozzle  so as to provide a small portion of the counter flow referenced above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["70","10","72","71","72","72","72","72","73","74","79","72","75","76","77","78","77","78"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1A"],"b":["35","59","35","59","61","60","62","63","35"]},"Utilizing the preferred embodiment of , aerosol particles are continuously sampled into the inner nozzle , then aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small-diameter jet within 300 \u03bcm diameter by the carrying airflow. After exiting the first passage (or inner nozzle ), the airflow is pulling in a reverse direction in the outer passage of coaxial-nozzle , while the air speed decreases, the particles are also slowed by the drag forces resulting from the particle's inertia tending to remain constant, i.e., to keep the particle velocity greater than that of the airflow. Eventually the downward component of the air velocity and the particle velocity decreases to zero and changes and turn 180\u00b0. The particles and the air then move laterally out of the jet and into the counter flowing air stream which is drawn back up into the outer passage or nozzle , and they exit through the outer nozzle. The trapping region is set a little above the center of zero-velocity point. This design reduces the downward Stokes drag force on the particle in the region where the particle is trapped so that a photophoretic force is strong enough to stop the particles and trap them. The small drag from the downward airflow along the central line, the gravitational force and optical (mostly photophoretic) forces push the particle to the point where it is trapped. Particles that touch the high-intensity-light surface of the confining cone will be pushed toward the axis of the aerosol jet by the photophoretic forces and pushed towards the focal point by optical pressure forces, which for absorbing particles are typically small compared to the photophoretic forces, pulled down toward the vertex of the cone with gravity. The combination of the designs (optical trapping cone and counter-flow coaxial-double-nozzle) makes it possible to readily capture and trap particles continuously drawn into the chamber.","The preferred embodiment system of  can repeatedly capture a particle from a jet of micron-size aerosol particles that are continuously drawn into the chamber, and then trap the particle for measurement or observation, and release it (by blocking and unblocking the trapping laser beam). In a test experiment, the trapping laser power is 50 mW. The particles shown are aggregates (approximately 20-\u03bcm average diameter with large variance) of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) which have an outside diameter less than 7 nm, an inside diameter approximately 2-5 nm, and a length approximately 10-30 \u03bcm. During a one minute time period, more than 10 particles have been captured, trapped, and released. A new particle can be captured and trapped from a jet within one second, once the laser is unblocked. The trapping rate could be increased by reducing the time that the particle is in trap and the time the laser is blocked. The preferred embodiment of  can repeatedly sample, trap, and release light-absorbing airborne micron-sized aerosol particles that are continuously drawn into a chamber. This technology has the potential to be developed into a new analytical instrument for on-line observation or measurement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1A"],"b":["80","10","80","80"]},"As shown in , subassembly  includes filters , flow meters , pumps , and valves , not necessarily arranged in the order shown in . The preferred methodology of  is as follow:\n\n","To achieve sampling particles from air at a reasonable rates (e.g., approximately 1 liter\/second), while retaining the ability to capture and study the particles, the following techniques are applied.","(1) \u201cGating on\u201d or the Trapping Beam as the Particle Enters the Trapping Region.","Particles are detected by measuring the elastic scattering as the particles approach the trapping region, so that the trapping laser beam is \u201cgated on\u201d or unblocked at the correct time to trap the particle. Particularly beam sheet  \u201cturn on\u201d to prevent other particles into the trapping volume and further solid the trap when a particles is trapped. Once the measurement is finished, the trapping beam is unblocked to let the particle be carried away in the airstream. Once the trapping beam is \u201con\u201d, the high intensity light surface of the cone and the sheet will prevent any other particles entering the trapping region (i.e., inside the cone region). The beam  can keep on all the time, and only \u201coff\u201d for release the trapped particle when a measurement or observation is finished for it.","(2) Selection of the Most Suitable Laser Wavelengths for Trapping and Illumination.","Because most biological and chemical particles absorb light strongly in the 220 to 245-nm range, and fluoresce at wavelengths longer than 280 nm, a short-wavelength laser (220 to 245 nm range) is used for both trapping particles and exciting Raman. The Raman signals generated will be increased as (\/wavelength), and enhanced by the near-resonance excitation. Also, the Raman spectra will be separated from the fluorescence, which can otherwise interfere. If an illumination laser wavelength in the non-absorbing region is needed for other studies, a beam from a laser with different emission wavelength can be introduced. If desired, it can be tightly focused to the position of the trapped particle. If so, the radiation pressure force generated by this second laser could add an additional trapping force to push the particle towards the position of highest laser intensity, but might also push other particles to the trapping region.","(3) Utilization of Virtual Impaction to Increase the Sampling Rate by Concentrating the Particles while Also Slowing the Particles to Maintain the Trapping Efficiency.","Sampling aerosol at 1 L\/min through a 1 mm diameter nozzle causes the particles to move at approximately 10 m\/sec. To concentrate particles, a nozzle is used, but most of the airflow is drawn in a direction perpendicular to the aerosol stream; while drawing a minority flow containing the concentrated particles on a straight path as they leave the nozzle. Then the velocity of the minority flow will be reduced to 1 m\/sec or less. The reduced particle momenta will be low enough for the photophoretic forces to trap the particles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["35","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 4B, 4C","FIG. 4A"],"b":"35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 1A, 1C, 2 and 3","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B"],"b":["61","59","61","61","43","38"],"i":"the "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 1A","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["61","59","7","63","36","35","34","35","35","59","61","60","62","59"]},"Advantages","In accordance with the principles of the present invention, an improved on-line instrument is developed for detecting and characterizing aerosols, particularly a real-time device for detecting aerosolized biological, chemical threats using more informative optical signatures such as Raman spectra with big reduction of false positive alarm rate. The present invention significantly changes the current feeding methods for trapping particles in air, and is useful in various on-line analytical applications, in which long-time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successive arriving particles (e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere, pharmaceutical or other production facilities) is required, but each of them needs to be trapped for a short time (e.g. a few seconds) observation or measurement.","Raman Signals and Capturing","The preferred embodiments of  may be utilized as a transportable system for studying bioaerosols (including aerosolized bioagents) and the effects of the atmosphere and sunlight on these, and for rapidly detecting and characterizing aerosolized chem- and bio-agents. It is also desirable to use Raman characterization technology to study the effects of the atmospheric environment (sunlight, humidity, & gasses such as ozone) on bioaerosols. The Raman scattering intensity Imay be computed as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0062"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["I","fi"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\/"},"mn":"2"}}},{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":["0","2"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mn":"0"},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mi":"fi"}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"3"},"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mn":"0"},{"mi":"g","mn":"0"}],"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c1","o"],"mo":","}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c1","\u03c3"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},"mi":"ji"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c1","\u03c3"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},"mi":"ji","mo":"*"}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001-2","num":"00001.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mi":"Where","mo":["\u2062","[","]"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c1","o"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},"mi":"fi"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"hc"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["r","i"],"mo":"\u2260"},"mo":",","mi":"f"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","\u03c1"]}},"mi":"fr"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","o"]}}},"mi":"ri"},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mi":"ri"},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mn":"0"}],"mo":["-","-"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","r"]}}}},{"msub":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","o"]}},"mi":"fr"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","\u03c1"]}}},"mi":"ri"},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mi":"rf"},{"mover":{"mi":"v","mo":"~"},"mn":"0"}],"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","r"]}}}}],"mo":"+"}}}}}}}],"br":{}},"A hollow beam operates to trap absorbing or weakly-absorbing particles using photophoretic forces, and a tightly focused beam (green) to trap non-absorbing particles with radiation-pressure forces. The preferred embodiment system optionally measures Raman spectra of individual particles sampled from air (background or generated by the experimental set-up), and operates continuously in a sample-trap-measure-release mode. Since single-particle Raman signals are weak, the particles must be trapped; i.e., there is a need to draw and focus particles into the trap at sufficient sampling rates, while moving the particles slowly enough to reduce the drag force so they can be trapped. Electric field related traps require charging particles, which makes the setup complicated.","As generally known, Raman spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique used to observe vibrational, rotational, and\/or other low-frequency modes in a system; relying on inelastic scattering, or Raman scattering, of monochromatic light, usually from a laser in the visible, near infrared, or near ultraviolet range. The laser light interacts with molecular vibrations, phonons or other excitations in the system, resulting in the energy of the laser photons being shifted up or down. The shift in energy gives information about the vibrational modes in the system. Typically, a sample is illuminated with a laser beam. Light from the illuminated spot is collected with a lens and sent through a monochromator. Wavelengths close to the laser line due to elastic Rayleigh scattering are filtered out while the rest of the collected light is dispersed onto a detector.","The present invention can aerodynamically focus, concentrate, and also slow the particles down using such a counter-flow coaxial-double-nozzle design. The present invention can feed aerosol particles to the very localized trapping region at an extremely low speed. The hollow cone surrounded by a conical high-intensity light surface provides a trap for absorbing or weakly-absorbing particles; while affording the capability of repeatedly trapping different successively arriving particles. The present invention offers the measurement of size and other properties of absorbing or weakly absorbing particles that do not need to be uniform. The present invention provides a device design that allows adequate optical windows  for optical observation and measurement. Optionally, the chamber  may be an air-tight chamber for sample manipulations, e.g., introduction of other chemical species into the chamber.","The present invention provides a novel integrated opto-aerodynamic system and demonstrates that it enables us to trap absorbing airborne micron-size particles from air, hold them and then release them, and to repeat this sequence many times as would be appropriate for continuous sampling of particles from air. The preferred embodiment shown in  comprises a conical photophoretic optical trap and a counter-flow coaxial-double-nozzle ,  that focuses, concentrates and then slows particles for trapping. This technology should be useful for on-line applications that require monitoring (by single particle analyses) of a series of successively arriving particles (e.g., from the atmosphere or pharmaceutical or other production facilities) where the total sampling time may last from minutes to days, but where each particle must be held for a short time for measurements (e.g., Raman scattering). The aerodynamic design for delivering aerosol particles into a trapping region by the co-axis counter-flow double nozzle, which can concentrate and focus aerosol particles, and eventually deliver to a small trapping region at very slow speed, also can be used for any other trapping methods, such as using optical-pressure force, optical gradient force, electric, magnetic force, acoustic force.","As used herein the terminology \u201cCCD\u201d means charge coupled device.","As used herein the terminology \u201cpump\u201d means a device that raises, transfers, delivers, or compresses fluids or that attenuates gases especially by suction or pressure or both.","As used herein the terminology \u201coutlet\u201d means passage for escape or exit; a vent, an opening or passage by which anything is let out.","As used herein, the terminology \u201cclean air flow\u201d means a gaseous flow absent any particles.","As used herein the terminology \u201chollow beam\u201d means a light beam, such as a laser beam, that look like a ring in cross-section.","Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that, within the scope of the appended claims, the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1A"],"b":"70"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["59","35","63","35","59","61","60","62"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["35","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":"35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4A"],"b":"35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
