---
title: Lightweight armor with slide region for slidably redirecting projectiles
abstract: A lightweight armor for resisting penetration by both fragments and high velocity sharply pointed projectiles. The lightweight armor includes a slide region and a receiving region, with the slide region having a backing material coated with polyurea to slidably redirect projectiles towards the receiving region, which may include high strength thickened projectile stopping materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459079&OS=09459079&RS=09459079
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09459079
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy, and, thus the claimed invention may be manufactured, used, licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.","The following description relates generally to a lightweight armor with a slide region and a receiving region, and in particular, the lightweight armor is designed so that the slide region slidably redirects projectiles towards the receiving region where the projectiles are stopped.","Military vehicles are subject to attack from high velocity projectiles, including sharply pointed bullets and fragments. The projectiles can penetrate vehicles and cause serious injury or death to the occupants thereof. Thus, these vehicles require armor to protect against these types of attacks. In addition to military vehicles, other vehicles which require armor protection include, for example, limousines, commercial armored cars and other non-military vehicles used for transporting people or high-value cargo.","Over the years, various forms of armor have been developed to provide protection to both the vehicles and the occupants. When developing a specific armor, consideration must be given to the type or types of projectile and energetic force against which the armor must provide protection. Consideration must also be given to the effectiveness of the overall armor system in protecting against multiple threats. Further consideration must be given to the weight of the armor system and to the practicality of use of the armor in view of its weight. To this end, consideration must also be given to the material that is used for the armor.","Currently, armor piercing and other high velocity rounds are defeated by thick high strength steel armor, with or without angled perforations, ceramics, high strength fabrics or combinations of the same. A new component has been added more recently, i.e., highly rate sensitive polymers. This material has been of interest in resisting penetration by fragments, but is not very effective against sharply pointed bullets that tend to pierce through it. It is desired to have an armor system that is lightweight, that protects against multiple threats such as fragments and sharply pointed bullets.","In one aspect, the invention is a lightweight armor assembly for resisting penetration by both fragments and high velocity sharply pointed projectiles. In this aspect, the lightweight armor assembly includes a structure having a substantially sinusoidal profile in an X-Y coordinate reference system. The substantially sinusoidal profile has a plurality of slide regions for slidably redirecting high velocity projectiles. Each slide region has a substantially V-shaped protrusion elongated in the Y-direction, having an apex and a base. According to the invention, each substantially V-shaped protrusion includes, a backing material having a thickness t, and a polyurea coating over the light-weight material. The polyurea coating has a thickness t, with the polyurea coating being converted to a lubricated slide surface when contacted by said high velocity projectiles. The substantially sinusoidal profile also has a plurality of receiving regions for receiving and stopping high velocity projectiles, either redirected from the sliding region or emanating from another source. Each receiving region has a substantially flat lateral section, having a thickness T, thicker than the backing material thickness t, the substantially flat lateral section extending in the X-direction between the substantially V-Shaped protrusions and contacting each substantially V-shaped protrusion at a respective base.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["100","100","110","130","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["100","110","130","115","117","119","115","135","119","115","100","135","119","119"]},"The substantially V-shaped protrusions  are the structures that make up the slide regions  and the substantially flat lateral sections  are the structures that make up the receiving regions . Each substantially V-shaped protrusion has a backing material . This backing material  may be cast armor, high hard steel, aluminum, Ti 6Al-4V titanium alloy, a composite, or any other known material used as armor, or combinations thereof. As outlined below, this backing material  is relatively thin as compared to other portions of the assembly , and therefore contributes to an overall reduction in the weight of the armor assembly . The backing material  is known to be used to resist penetration by fragments, but not as effective against high velocity projectiles such as sharply pointed bullets.","Each substantially V-shaped protrusion also includes a polyurea coating  over the backing material . When bombarded with high-impact and high-velocity projectiles, polyurea converts to a transient liquid phase. This physical characteristic is used to provide the sliding feature of the slide region . Thus, when the protrusions  are impacted by high-velocity projectiles, instead of penetrating into the surface, the projectiles tend to slide off, as facilitated by the lubricated effect of the transient liquid polyurea.","As stated above, in addition to the substantially V-shaped protrusions , the substantially sinusoidal profile of the lightweight armor assembly  also includes substantially flat lateral sections , which is the structure of the plurality of receiving regions  for receiving and stopping high velocity projectiles. In operation the receiving region sees projectiles, either slidably redirected from the slide region  or projectiles making contact without first striking the slide region . The substantially flat lateral section  may be made from high strength thickened steel, Ti 6Al-4V titanium alloy, 7075 T6 Aluminum or other metals or composites known to be used for armor, or combinations thereof. It should be noted that the substantially flat lateral section  may be made from the same material as the backing material , although not as thin as the backing material .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","110","130","115","120","125","120","135"],"sub":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":"115","sub":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1C"],"b":["100","10","100","110","130","10"]},"As outlined above, each slide region  includes a substantially V-shaped protrusion , having a lightweight backing material  and a polyurea coating . When the high velocity sharply pointed projectile  strikes the protrusion , instead of penetrating into the surface, the projectile  slides downwards. Under the impact of the high velocity projectile , the polyurea coating  converts to a transient liquid phase, which essentially lubricates the surface, thereby causing the projectile  to slide downwards. Without the coating , the high velocity sharply pointed projectile would probably penetrate into the backing material , but the coating  in combination with the backing material slidably redirects the projectile .","As shown in at position \u2032 in , the projectile is slidably redirected off-axis, i.e., rotated to a new angle with respect to its original angular orientation, after contacting the protrusion , with the polyurea coating  liquefying and having a lubricating effect. The projectile is redirected towards the receiving region . As shown, the high velocity sharply pointed projectile , at position \u2033, impacts the substantially flat lateral section  of the receiving region . Now that the high velocity sharply pointed projectile  is off-axis, it is more likely to be stopped by the high strength material of the substantially flat lateral section . Although,  only shows the path of a single high velocity sharply pointed projectile , the operation of the lightweight armor assembly  is consistent with the illustration of , even though the angle of initial impact with the coating  may vary. Essentially, the projectiles slide upon impact with coating , and are redirected off-axis towards the receiving area, where the projectiles are stopped.","It should also be noted that the lightweight armor assembly  resists penetration by both high velocity sharply pointed projectiles, and fragments. The illustration of  shows how the assembly  resists high velocity sharply pointed projectiles. Both the slide region  with the lightweight backing material  and the receiving region  with the high strength material of the substantially flat lateral section  are also know for resisting fragments. Thus, the assembly  is effective at protecting against both fragments and high velocity sharply pointed projectiles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 1C","FIGS. 1A-1C","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1A-1C","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","110","130","115","135"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["115","200","200","201","203","201","202","115","135","201","202"]},"As outlined above, each substantially V-shaped protrusion  includes the polyurea coating  over the backing material , which may be steel, aluminum, composite, or any other material known for being used as lightweight armor. Each substantially flat lateral section  may be made from high strength steel or the like. It should be noted that the specific thicknesses T, t, and t, as well as apex angle \u03b1, and matching base angles \u03b2, as outlined above, are also applicable to the embodiment of . Thus, for example, the backing material thickness t may be about \u215b inches to about \u215c inches, and the polyurea coating thickness tmay be about 1\/16 inches","In operation, the corrugated plate armor assembly  works as outlined above with respect to . Thus, the substantially V-shaped protrusions  of the slide region , includes the lightweight backing material  as well as the polyurea coating . When the high velocity sharply pointed projectile  strikes the protrusion , instead of penetrating into the surface, the projectile  slides downwards and is redirected in an off-axis orientation towards the receiving region , at which point the projectile is stopped. As noted above with respect to the profile of , the corrugated plate armor assembly  includes backing material  and high strength material of section  which are known for resisting fragments. Thus, the assembly  is effective at protecting against both fragments and high velocity sharply pointed projectiles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 1C","FIGS. 1A-1C","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","115","135","115","115","135","115"]},"As outlined above, each substantially V-shaped protrusion , i.e., each right circular cone includes the polyurea coating  over the backing material , which may be steel, aluminum, composite, or any other material known for being used as lightweight armor. Each substantially flat lateral section  may be made from high strength steel or the like. Again, it should be noted that the specific thicknesses T, t, and t, as outlined above, are also applicable to lightweight 3-dimensional armor assembly . Thus, for example, the backing material thickness t may be about \u215b inches to about \u215c inches, and the polyurea coating thickness tmay be about 1\/16 inches to about \u2155 inches. Regarding the angles, the apex angle \u03b1 is the angle at the vertex of the cone , and the base angle \u03b2 is the angle a slanted side S makes with the base. As stated above, \u03b1 may be about 30 degrees to about 60 degrees. According to a specific embodiment, \u03b1 is about 45 degrees or less.","In operation, the lightweight 3-dimensional armor assembly  works as outlined above with respect to . Thus, when a high velocity sharply pointed projectile  strikes the cone , instead of penetrating into the surface, the projectile  slides downwards and is redirected in an off-axis orientation towards the receiving region , at which point the projectile is stopped. As noted above with respect to the profile of , the lightweight 3-dimensional armor assembly  includes backing material  and high strength material of section , which are known for resisting fragments. Thus, the assembly  is effective at protecting against both fragments and high velocity sharply pointed projectiles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["400","400","100","410"],"sub":"c"},"As shown,  shows the substantially V-shaped protrusions  having holes . At the area surrounding these holes , ridges  are formed. Because of the close similarities between the assembly  of  and assembly  of , both assemblies act similarly to protect against projectiles. Thus, in the lightweight armor assembly , when a high velocity sharply pointed projectile strikes the surface in the slide region  the polyurea coating  converts to a transient liquid phase, thereby causing the projectile to slide off the surface, redirecting it downwards towards the receiving region . When projectiles (both high velocity sharply pointed and fragments) strike the ridges , the impact may fragment the projectiles. The impact may also redirect fragments, turning them off-axis, in a more dramatic way as compared to when striking the surface as outlined with respect to . The redirected projectiles\/fragments are directed towards the receiving region  were they stopped at the thickened section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"b":["450","450"]},"The embodiment of  is essentially the lightweight corrugated plate armor assembly , with the inclusion of the holes  and ridges . Like elements are labelled accordingly, and operate similarly. Thus, in addition to operating to stop projectiles as described above in reference to , the holes  and ridges  shown in  also fragment and redirect projectiles towards the receiving region  were they stopped at the substantially flat lateral section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4C"],"b":["475","475"]},"The embodiment of  is essentially the 3-dimensional armor assembly , with the inclusion of the holes  and ridges . Like elements are labelled accordingly, and operate similarly. Thus, in addition to operating to stop projectiles as described above in reference to , the holes  and ridges  shown in  also fragment and redirect projectiles towards the receiving region  were they stopped at the thickened section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["500","500","100","135","540","540","119","115","119","115"],"sub":"c"},"The lightweight armor assembly  operates as outlined above with in reference to . Thus, upon striking the slide region , high velocity sharply pointed projectiles slide off the surface and are redirected towards the receiving region . At the receiving region  in assembly , the graded thickened section  stops the projectile. The concave upper surface reduces the chances of \u201chead-on\u201d strikes that are capable penetrating into the thickened section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["550","550","130","540","110","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5C"],"b":["575","575","130","115","535","110","130","535"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["600","600","100","635","130","645","645","635"],"sub":"c"},"The lightweight armor assembly  operates as outlined above with in reference to . Thus, upon striking the slide region , high velocity sharply pointed projectiles slide off the surface and are redirected towards the receiving region . At the receiving region  in assembly , the substantially flat lateral section  stops the projectile. The ceramic plug  may comprise most of section , and thus may stop the projectile.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6B"],"b":["650","650","130","635","645","110","130","635","645"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6C","FIG. 5C"],"b":["675","675","130","115","635","645","110","130","635","645"]},"What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms, descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example in the embodiments illustrated in , and C, the substantially V-shaped protrusions may have an ellipsoid shape. Also, the spacing between the substantially V-shaped protrusions  may be adjusted to be closer together or farther apart. The invention including the stated variations is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents, in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other features will be apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
