---
title: Marketing channel selection on an individual recipient basis
abstract: An approach is provided for selecting a telecommunications channel. In the approach, recipient attributes that correspond to an intended recipient are identified and current environment settings are retrieved. Predefined channel expression rules are then executed, with the channel expression rules utilizing the recipient attributes and the current environment settings as inputs to the rules. The execution of the channel expression rules results in the identification of a best telecommunications channel. A message is then transmitted to the intended recipient over the identified best telecommunications channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641682&OS=09641682&RS=09641682
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09641682
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150513
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE 1","EXAMPLE 2","EXAMPLE 3","Same as Example #2 Except with Income Threshold Obtained Generically from the Offer","EXAMPLE 4"],"p":["Technical Field","This disclosure relates to selecting telecommunications channels. More particularly, this disclosure relates to selecting a telecommunications channel based on the individual recipient and external factors.","Description of Related Art","Modern marketers want the ability to deliver personalized messages to their customers. They also desire the ability to select the optimal telecommunication channel(s) on which to deliver such marketing messages. Many marketing products allow a provider to determine the \u201cNext Best Offer\u201d (e.g., a discount, promotion, advertisement, etc.) for a consumer using a variety of intelligent heuristics. However, those marketing products do not provide the ability to determine the best outbound telecommunications channel(s) on which the marketing message should be served. As more and more channels become commonplace, and as new marketing telecommunications channels are added every year, determining the best telecommunications channel on which to serve offer content is becoming increasingly important.","An approach is provided for selecting a telecommunications channel. In the approach, recipient attributes that correspond to an intended recipient are identified and current environment settings are retrieved. Predefined channel expression rules are then executed, with the channel expression rules utilizing the recipient attributes and the current environment settings as inputs to the rules. The execution of the channel expression rules results in the identification of a best telecommunications channel. A message is then transmitted to the intended recipient over the identified best telecommunications channel.","The foregoing is a summary and thus contains, by necessity, simplifications, generalizations, and omissions of detail; consequently, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects, inventive features, and advantages of the present invention, as defined solely by the claims, will become apparent in the non-limiting detailed description set forth below.","The present invention may be a system, a method, and\/or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium (or media) having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.","The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but is not limited to, an electronic storage device, a magnetic storage device, an optical storage device, an electromagnetic storage device, a semiconductor storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non-exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following: a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), a static random access memory (SRAM), a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), a digital versatile disk (DVD), a memory stick, a floppy disk, a mechanically encoded device such as punch-cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon, and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium, as used herein, is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se, such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves, electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media (e.g., light pulses passing through a fiber-optic cable), or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.","Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing\/processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network, for example, the Internet, a local area network, a wide area network and\/or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables, optical transmission fibers, wireless transmission, routers, firewalls, switches, gateway computers and\/or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing\/processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing\/processing device.","Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions, instruction-set-architecture (ISA) instructions, machine instructions, machine dependent instructions, microcode, firmware instructions, state-setting data, or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like, and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider). In some embodiments, electronic circuitry including, for example, programmable logic circuitry, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA), or programmable logic arrays (PLA) may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry, in order to perform aspects of the present invention.","Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems), and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.","These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer, a programmable data processing apparatus, and\/or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process, such that the instructions which execute on the computer, other programmable apparatus, or other device implement the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods, and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of instructions, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). In some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","The following detailed description will generally follow the summary of the invention, as set forth above, further explaining and expanding the definitions of the various aspects and embodiments of the invention as necessary. To this end, this detailed description first sets forth a computing environment in  that is suitable to implement the software and\/or hardware techniques associated with the invention. A networked environment is illustrated in  as an extension of the basic computing environment, to emphasize that modern computing techniques can be performed across multiple discrete devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","112","112","110","115","115","120","110","125","115","118","115","125","125","130"]},"Northbridge  and Southbridge  connect to each other using bus . In one embodiment, the bus is a Direct Media Interface (DMI) bus that transfers data at high speeds in each direction between Northbridge  and Southbridge . In another embodiment, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus connects the Northbridge and the Southbridge. Southbridge , also known as the I\/O Controller Hub (ICH) is a chip that generally implements capabilities that operate at slower speeds than the capabilities provided by the Northbridge. Southbridge  typically provides various busses used to connect various components. These busses include, for example, PCI and PCI Express busses, an ISA bus, a System Management Bus (SMBus or SMB), and\/or a Low Pin Count (LPC) bus. The LPC bus often connects low-bandwidth devices, such as boot ROM  and \u201clegacy\u201d I\/O devices (using a \u201csuper I\/O\u201d chip). The \u201clegacy\u201d I\/O devices () can include, for example, serial and parallel ports, keyboard, mouse, and\/or a floppy disk controller. The LPC bus also connects Southbridge  to Trusted Platform Module (TPM) . Other components often included in Southbridge  include a Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller, a Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC), and a storage device controller, which connects Southbridge  to nonvolatile storage device , such as a hard disk drive, using bus .","ExpressCard  is a slot that connects hot-pluggable devices to the information handling system. ExpressCard  supports both PCI Express and USB connectivity as it connects to Southbridge  using both the Universal Serial Bus (USB) the PCI Express bus. Southbridge  includes USB Controller  that provides USB connectivity to devices that connect to the USB. These devices include webcam (camera) , infrared (IR) receiver , keyboard and trackpad , and Bluetooth device , which provides for wireless personal area networks (PANs). USB Controller  also provides USB connectivity to other miscellaneous USB connected devices , such as a mouse, removable nonvolatile storage device , modems, network cards, ISDN connectors, fax, printers, USB hubs, and many other types of USB connected devices. While removable nonvolatile storage device  is shown as a USB-connected device, removable nonvolatile storage device  could be connected using a different interface, such as a Firewire interface, etcetera.","Wireless Local Area Network (LAN) device  connects to Southbridge  via the PCI or PCI Express bus . LAN device  typically implements one of the IEEE 0.802.11 standards of over-the-air modulation techniques that all use the same protocol to wireless communicate between information handling system  and another computer system or device. Optical storage device  connects to Southbridge  using Serial ATA (SATA) bus . Serial ATA adapters and devices communicate over a high-speed serial link. The Serial ATA bus also connects Southbridge  to other forms of storage devices, such as hard disk drives. Audio circuitry , such as a sound card, connects to Southbridge  via bus . Audio circuitry  also provides functionality such as audio line-in and optical digital audio in port , optical digital output and headphone jack , internal speakers , and internal microphone . Ethernet controller  connects to Southbridge  using a bus, such as the PCI or PCI Express bus. Ethernet controller  connects information handling system  to a computer network, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), the Internet, and other public and private computer networks.","While  shows one information handling system, an information handling system may take many forms. For example, an information handling system may take the form of a desktop, server, portable, laptop, notebook, or other form factor computer or data processing system. In addition, an information handling system may take other form factors such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a gaming device, ATM machine, a portable telephone device, a communication device or other devices that include a processor and memory.","The Trusted Platform Module (TPM ) shown in  and described herein to provide security functions is but one example of a hardware security module (HSM). Therefore, the TPM described and claimed herein includes any type of HSM including, but not limited to, hardware security devices that conform to the Trusted Computing Groups (TCG) standard, and entitled \u201cTrusted Platform Module (TPM) Specification Version 1.2.\u201d The TPM is a hardware security subsystem that may be incorporated into any number of information handling systems, such as those outlined in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","270","210","220","230","240","250","260","280","200","260","265","270","275","280","285","145","145"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 3-6"},"The approach described herein provides the ability to determine the \u201cbest telecommunications channel\u201d for a given marketing message on an individual recipient basis. In today's modern digital world, a customer can be contacted via TV, billboards, direct marketing, phone, text message, email, mobile applications, web adds and more. While some people may view offers sent to them equally on any of these telecommunications channels, many people tune out marketing messages on some of these channels. This is often a personal preference, making the determination of the \u201cBest Channel\u201d for a given individual a non-trivial task. This approach allows the usage of algorithms to assist in the process of selecting the best channel(s) on which to deliver a given offer to an individual recipient. Marketers are able to use any of a recipient's known attributes, as well as attributes of the offer itself, to create an advanced expression condition to govern whether a channel is best for delivering a given offer to a specific recipient, and to do so in near real-time.","For example: suppose that Company A is about to send an offer to one of its customers (customer A-1). Before the offer is sent, the system consults a set of predefined channel expression rules (e.g., defined by company A's marketing department, consultants, etc.) that determine the channel that best serves the offer to customer A-1. In defining the rules, the marketer can compare any of customer-A-1's attributes to any other attribute or value. In addition, the rules can also compare customer attributes to attributes of the offer. A variety of functions and transformations can also be used in this rule definition. A trivial example might be as simple as just checking whether the system has the person's phone number before selecting SMS as the telecommunications channel. A slightly more advanced condition might be to recognize that it's very late at night for that person and the customer might be annoyed to receive a text message at 2 AM, so sending it on email is likely a better option. An extension to the rule might be to add a further condition that says it's acceptable to send a text message at 2 AM if the customer just performed an action on the company's website. Further predefined channel expression rules are shown and described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","305","310","320","325","330","340"]},"Events are received by a processing system using event APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) . Each API provides a set of routines, protocols, and tools for handling the various types of events. Process  receives event inputs from the event APIs and performs realtime event processing and segmentation on the events. Process  receives results from the realtime event processing and segmentation process and performs advanced event detection and pattern detection. For example, multiple events may be combined by process  using advanced heuristics. For example, a trigger may be received that a customer is in a particular area of a store as well as a website trigger from the merchant's website that the customer is searching for a particular product.","Based on the processing performed by processes  and , an offer or other marketing message may be retrieved by process  that implement various offer strategies utilized by the merchant in communications with customers. If an offer was retrieved, process  performs the channel selector process that selects the best telecommunications channel to use with this particular customer in order to communicate the retrieved offer. In one embodiment, offer dispatcher  is used to dispatch the retrieved offer to the customer over the selected best telecommunications channel.","If a custom gateway is being used to communicate the offer, then offer dispatcher  transmits the offer to custom gateway  for transmission to the customer over the selected best the telecommunications channel. Custom gateway  then transmits the offer to the customer over a third party channel . If a custom gateway is not being used to communicate the offer, then offer dispatcher  transmits the offer to using outbound gateways  (e.g. email, SMS, website, landing page, mobile push, etc.). Message , such as a marketing message or other message with an offer from the merchant, is transmitted to customer device  over the selected best telecommunications channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","405","410","415","420"]},"At step , the user profile attributes and conditions are selected for the selected channel expression. The user profile attributes and conditions are selected from available user attributes data store  and the selected user profile attributes are stored in expression attributes and conditions memory area .","At step , offer attributes and conditions for the selected channel expression are selected from available offer attributes data store . The selected offer attributes and conditions are stored in expression attributes and conditions memory area .","At step , any additional functions and extensions and their associated attributes and conditions are selected for the selected channel expression are selected from other available functions, extensions, and attributes data store . The selected other available functions, extensions, and attributes data are stored in expression attributes and conditions memory area .","At step , the conditions between session, profile, offer, and additional attributes are retrieved from memory area  and edited as needed. The channel expression is stored in configured telecommunications channel expressions. The process determines as to whether more channel expressions are being setup (decision ).","The following channel expression examples are provided to illustrate the flexibility of channel expressions. In the first example, a channel expression is formed to select SMS as the channel for a \u201c20% Off coupon\u201d for this recipient IF it's normal business hours in their time zone OR if a detection was made that the customer just struggled using the merchant's website when entering a promotion code three times in the last five minutes and the user has more than three abandoned shopping carts in the last year:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SMS=phonenumber != null && ((adjustTimeZone"]},{"entry":[{},"(CURRENT_HOUR,profile.timezone) >= 9 && adjustTimeZone"]},{"entry":[{},"(CURRENT_HOUR,profile.timezone) <= 17) || ((profile."]},{"entry":[{},"currentEventCode== struggledOnWebsiteEnteringPromoCode)"]},{"entry":[{},"&&(count (profile.abandonedShoppingCartHistory) >3))"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In the second example, a channel expression is formed to select the mobile push notification as the channel for a \u201c40% Off coupon\u201d for this recipient IF the customer is known to make more than $100,000 per year and the customer just installed and logged into our mobile app for the first time, after receiving and opened the \u201cInstall our new mobile app\u201d email we sent last month:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"mobilePushmobileId != null && (profile. incomeBracket >="]},{"entry":[{},"100000) && (profile. currentEventCode =="]},{"entry":[{},"installedOurMobileApp) && (profile."]},{"entry":[{},"openedMobileAppPromoEmail == true)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In the third example, a channel expression is formed to select the mobile push notification as the channel for delivering this offer (ie promotion) for this recipient IF they make more than the offer's income threshold and just installed and logged into our mobile app for the first time and did so after receiving and opening the \u201cInstall our new mobile app\u201d email we sent last month.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"mobilePush=mobileId != null &&"]},{"entry":[{},"(profile.incomeBracket>=offer.incomeThreshhold) &&"]},{"entry":[{},"(profile.currentEventCode==installedOurMobileApp) &&"]},{"entry":[{},"(profile.openedMobileAppPromoEmail == true)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In the fourth example, a channel expression is formed to select email as the channel for delivering this offer (ie promotion) to this recipient IF within 5 minutes of leaving a store, the recipient makes a large purchase through the mobile app, where a large purchase is defined as a being more than 3 times the standard deviation of their past year's purchase history AND this offer's message body is too large to fit in one text message and EITHER the recipient's phone is an older model which displays large messages badly OR the recipient lives in a country where text messaging is expensive.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"email=emailAddress != null && profile.currentEventCode=="]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cpurchase\u201d && profile.currentEventChannel= \u201cMobileApp\u201d &&"]},{"entry":[{},"(profile.currentEventPurchaseAmount >"]},{"entry":[{},"3*STDEV(profile.purchaseHistory)) && ((CURRENT_TIME \u2212"]},{"entry":[{},"profile.lastExitedStore) < 5*60*1000) &&"]},{"entry":[{},"length(offer.messageBody) > 256 && (profile.phoneAge >"]},{"entry":[{},"10 || in(profile.country, \u201cSpain\u201d, \u201cBelgium\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cNetherlands\u201d, \u201cNorway\u201d, \u201cAustralia\u201d, \u201cSwitzerland\u201d))"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"If more channel expressions are being setup, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch which loops back to setup the next channel expression as described above. This looping continues until there are no more channel expressions to be setup, at which point decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch. In one embodiment, at step , the process orders, or sorts, the configured channel expressions from most the preferred channel to the least preferred channel. In this manner, if the attributes collected when a trigger occurs matches more than one channel expression, the first, or most preferred, channel expression will be selected and utilized. The sorted channel expressions are stored in ordered channel expressions data store . Channel selector configuration processing thereafter ends at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","505","505","200","510","515","505","520"]},"At step , the process attempts to identify the customer corresponding to the triggered event using such tools and technologies as biometric data (e.g., camera images of the customer, etc.), the customer's user identifier if using the store's website, anonymous identifiers such as cookies, mobile device identifiers, and the like. Customer data is retrieved from data store . When a match is found, the matching customer data (e.g., customer profile data, customer identifier(s), customer channel contact identifiers, etc.) are retrieved and stored in memory area .","The process determines as to whether identification of the customer corresponding to the event was successful (decision ). If identification of the customer corresponding to the event was successful, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch to process any offers that the merchant may desire to present to the identified customer. On the other hand, if identification of the customer corresponding to the event was unsuccessful, then decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch bypassing the remaining steps and looping back to step  to receive the next customer event. Based on the type of telecommunications channel being used by the channel expression, personal identifiable information (PII) may or may not be needed. For example, if the channel expression provides an offer to the customer by sending a text message to the user's mobile telephone, then the user's identity would be needed to lookup the mobile telephone number that corresponds to the customer. On the other hand, if the channel expression provides an offer to a customer on the merchant's website, then the customer's PII is not needed and the anonymous address (e.g., IP address, etc.) corresponding to the customer when accessing the merchant's website can be used to transmit the offer to the customer.","At step , the process adds the detected event to a list of activities identified for this customer. The process stores the activities pertaining to a customer in memory area . Customer activities are collected and added to memory area  because a combination of events may initiate the sending of an offer to the customer rather than a single action or event.","At step , the process compares the collected customer's activities to the configured offer rules. The customer's collected activities are retrieved from memory area  and the configured offer rules are retrieved from offer rules data store . Offer(s) identified for the customer based on the customer's activities are stored in memory area .","The process determines as to whether the comparison performed at step  identified any offers for this customer based on the customer's activities (decision ). If any offers have been identified for this customer, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch for further processing. On the other hand, if no offers were identified for this customer, then decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch bypassing the remaining steps and looping back to step  to receive the next customer event.","At predefined process , the process performs the Select Delivery Channel routine (see  and corresponding text for processing details). The Select Delivery Channel identifies the best telecommunications channel to use to send this customer the offer by utilizing the channel expressions retrieved from data store , the customer data retrieved from memory area , and the identified offer(s) retrieved from memory area . When the conditions set forth in a channel expression are satisfied, then the telecommunications channel (e.g., text message, email, message to website user, etc.) set forth in the channel expression is used to transmit the message, such as an offer, to the customer. At step , the process delivers the offer to customer device  over the telecommunications channel that was selected by predefined process .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":"600"},"At step , the process gathers current environment data such as the current date, time, day of week, and the like. Step  stores the gathered environment data in memory area . At step , the process selects the first channel expression. The channel expressions are retrieved from ordered channel expressions data store . The selected channel expression is stored in memory area .","The process determines as to whether the process is able to send a message to this customer using the channel in the channel expression (decision ). For example, if the first channel expression uses SMS to send a text message to the customer but the customer data does not include the customer's SMS contact data (e.g., mobile phone number, etc.), then a different channel (e.g., email, etc.) is needed. If the process is able to communicate with this customer using the channel included in the selected channel expression, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch for further processing. On the other hand, if the process is not able to communicate with this customer using this channel, then decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch which bypasses steps  through .","At step , the process executes selected channel expression using inputs of customer data, customer activities, data for identified offers, and current environment data. Step  retrieves the environment data from memory area , the customer data from memory area , the customer's activities from memory area , the offer from memory area , and the selected channel expression from memory area . The result from executing the channel expression using the various inputs is stored in memory area . In one embodiment, the expression result is a Boolean value (e.g., \u20181\u2019 (TRUE) or \u20180\u2019 (FALSE), etc.) that indicates whether the channel expression corresponds to a channel that can be used given the various inputs. Because the channel expressions in data store  are sorted in preferred order, the first channel expression that can be used (results in a \u20181\u2019 or \u2018TRUE\u2019 value) is the channel expression, and telecommunications channel, that is selected.","Based on the result of executing the channel expression, the process determines as to whether to use this channel (decision ). If the channel result indicated that this channel is the best telecommunications channel to use with this customer, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch whereupon processing returns to the calling routine (see ) at . On the other hand, the result of executing the channel expression indicated that this channel should not be selected, then decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch and processing continues.","The process determines as to whether there are more channel expressions available for execution (decision ). If there are more channel expressions available for execution, then decision  branches to the \u2018yes\u2019 branch which loops back to step  to select and execute the next channel expression as described above. This looping continues until either a suitable channel expression is found (with decision  branching to \u2018yes\u2019 branch) or there are no more channel expressions to execute, at which point decision  branches to the \u2018no\u2019 branch exiting the loop and processing returns to the calling routine (see ) at  with a return code indicating that a suitable channel was not identified for this customer.","While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that, based upon the teachings herein, that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects. Therefore, the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those with skill in the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim element is intended, such intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such limitation is present. For non-limiting example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim elements. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim element by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim element to inventions containing only one such element, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d; the same holds true for the use in the claims of definite articles."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention may be better understood, and its numerous objects, features, and advantages made apparent to those skilled in the art by referencing the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
